en
Nicole.
Magnetic key card
Completed form
Origami
Handful of dirt
Tire-iron. Might be handy in a fight.
This is a city plan. The circle marks where James was killed.
An arrow points to a handwritten note - ''4:30 pm''
I think Nick wanted to meet me there.
I'll put the instrument safely away in the suitcase.
No one's answering. Did something happen to Nick?
I'll bet the 'phone still works, it's just sitting at the bottom of the river and the fish muted his annoying ring tone...
Please leave a message after the beep.
Hi, it's Nicole. I've been trying to reach you all day, Nick.
I'm doing the report on James's death.
His last words were 'Give Nick a message'. Just that.
Hi, this is Nicole Bonnet from the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Is this Mr. William Warren?
It is. Hello again Agent Bonnet. How can I help you today?
I'm hoping you could spare a moment from your busy schedule to meet me in person?
Well, uhh, when were you thinking?
Say, half an hour at the Museum?
Okay, that'll be fine.
One more thing. Do you know a Mr. Allan Branford? He's some kind of collector.
Of course, yes, he's a close acquaintance of mine.
Oh really? I need to contact him too, do you think you could pass a message for me please?
Certainly. In fact, hold on just a moment... ... ... Agent Bonnet?
Yes?
Mr. Branford is at the Museum now, and will wait to see you.
Thank you.
Blank Form
A solid container for a delicate instrument
No one there I guess.
In that case I'm going to the museum. I've got to warn Warren.
The torso of a pre-Columbian figurine
The head of a pre-Columbian figurine
What we presume is the shape of the murder weapon.
No. 2 pool ball
Beautiful, bird-shaped origami
Beautiful, boat-shaped origami
Piece of paper with a note on one side
A map, marked with a meeting place
Old, worn umbrella
500 sheets of printer paper
Bent umbrella spoke
Pre-Columbian vase
Bag of potting soil
I have a feeling this head is important. Besides, it's obviously valuable.
I should place it in our Evidence Deposit a.s.a.p.
I've had enough for today. I'll put the figurine in Evidence Deposit tomorrow.
Large, inflatable dinghy
'Allan Branford. Collector. Telephone: 555 455 150''. I should call him, really.
Unfortunately, he must have switched off his mobile.
I'll try fitting them together.
They fit! A closet opened up!
Doesn't this face look good on this head?
I'll try fitting them together.
They fit! A closet opened up!
It's all too much for one head!
A small bag of white powder. Well well. Time for a lab test.
Yep, tests confirmed my suspicions. It ain't sugar.
I look like a dopey tourist with this camera.
These batteries go in a 'phone.
My grandpa taught me about fuses back on his farm.
New life for an old fuse!
I managed to wedge the beam under the armchair.
Irreplaceable piece of an off-road vehicle's equipment.
Message in aa boo-ttlee...
A wire attached to an elegant handle
Diploma from the Fine Arts faculty of NYU
Kitchenware
Jug full of dough
Laboratory vial
Active sample
Active sample
Swab of a sample, for analysis
Aluminum foil for household use
Letter headed FBI stationery
A letter on this kinda headed paper can't be ignored!
Mmm, comfortable chair.
This is nothing compared to what dad and I used to do in his garage.
Special equipment, for use in buildings with particularly valuable furnishings.
Who still remembers yesterday's titles?
Who still remembers yesterday's titles?
A piece of paper
I shouldn't allow my gun to be knocked around like that.
The head of a figurine
Camera
Battery
Pulley
Empty champagne bottle
Champagne bottle with a rolled-up diploma inside
Wire from a doorbell
Diploma
Jug
Jug full of dough
Vial
Vial with a swab
Chair
Chair and pulley
Newspapers
Rolled-up newspapers
Cable
Sandwich
Fly-covered sandwich
Gas can
Card
James's key
Blood test results
Tetrahedral crystal
Dodecahedral crystal
Spherical crystal
Cubic crystal
James's ID
James's ID
Leaves
List of expedition members
Laboratory magnifying glass
Map
Sword
Cap
Knife
Scissors
Focal lens
Nicole's ID
Glasses
Money
Jack
Knob
Sample
Frame
Roll of paper
Jar with a swab
Jar without a cap
Jar of flies
Jar of spiders
Jar of water
Coke bottle
Tripod
Buckthorn
Jaw bone
Pliers
Skewer
Funnel
Clean swab
Dirty swab
Results
Matches
Gas lighter
Notes
Photo
Watch
Ball of wire
I don't really need to eat, but I'd love a drink.
I doubt Don Diego rents rooms to flies.
Never before has gas been so precious.
This card opens nearly everything in the office.
Virtual money
We have enough keys here.
Hmm. This lonely little key opens what exactly?
Bathtub and washbasin plug
Was this key the same, or did it have a pendant keying?
Under this lamp, blood sprayed with Luminol will shine out against its surroundings.
Under this lamp, blood sprayed with Luminol will shine out against its surroundings.
I managed to clean them.
The sight of this badge has a paralyzing effect on a lot of undesirables...
No. XFAD 8673
Chewing them minimizes the headachy effect of the altitude.
List of participants in Prof. Dickinson's expedition:
This allows us to see hidden bloodstains.
This magnifying glass is probably used for reading old, weathered maps.
By adjusting the lens, you can focus the beams of light.
Map of a tentative route to Akakor
This sword's blade isn't completely rusty.
James's mobile
This 'phone was damaged during the shooting. The battery's been destroyed, but maybe the data it contained is recoverable?
Try another battery first I guess.
Without a power supply, it won't reveal its secrets!
My cheeks would be burning with shame if I didn't pay back borrowed money.
Proper lock
Seeing this kinda thing makes me think the scissor business should be illegal.
Proper magnifying glass
Proud to be wearing 'em.
You have to watch those things.
I shouldn't allow my gun to be knocked around like that.
Essential equipment for serious expeditions
Such a small steering wheel!
Yes, it contains heroin. That's for sure.
Tin lid
Such an archaic filing system! Almost a whole game in itself!
Old framed photo
A bald description of human tragedy
Any evidence or samples of things should only be collected wearing these gloves.
Bundle of NYU bulletins, bound together by a bookbinder
A note from a castaway!
Unbelievable! Joel Tatum's Diploma of Fine Art from New York University.
Traditional glass displays are popular even in the jungle!
This herb is used to cure, uhh, constipation.
From the number of fillings and cavities in this jaw, it didn't come from a young man.
Some woman musta loved this hair brush, once.
It looks like the brushes are also going bald.
Cable-cutters for snipping live wires and cables
So small, so useful...
Yes, you can also kill with it...
The way it's just hanging around unprotected, it's probably just a replica.
This funnel's been lying here for years. Time to see what's inside...
Swab for collecting samples
Swab with a sample
Plastic bag for samples and material evidence
Enough for a small sample.
A small amount of the stuff on a clean swab should be enough.
I've done this one already.
Test results are often entered as evidence in criminal investigations.
A box of matches in the wrong hands can become a weapon.
Old metal lighter.
Now it should light up.
Crumbling paper covered in handwriting.
Here. An antique house in Cusco. Hence the dedication.
To John and colleagues, Noel Raches'.  This hairy beast is Raches?
Bracelet-watch, popular in the 80s
Federal Agent Nicole Bonnet, FBI. I need a patrol car to the library on East 84th.
It's for an expert witness in a case I'm investigating. I need her driven home safely.
Thank you.
Okay m'am, a policeman will be along in five minutes to give you a ride home.
Thank you very much for your time, you've been a tremendous help.
Not at all. It was quite exciting actually!
No, the camera's all good.
Pliers gripping a piece of wire
Uninsulated wire
Ropes
Bearing
Cash under a bearing
She's a beautiful dagger
It comes from Pizarro's times. I'd gladly give it to you, but I might still need it.
No, he wouldn't really need that.
No, the camera's all good.
...I was begging them to go and look for help.
I've convinced Alice that I have to stay here, in case Warren returns. I just hope the Indians don't vent their anger on me.
I've asked Noel for a watch - mine broke. I don't want to become disoriented.
My ears are alert to every sound the Indians make. They do seem more agitated than usual...
...attacked the camp outside. Suddenly, the quiet of the jungle night was filled with rock and roll music.
What a surreal experience, they had to find the radio.
Still, it would probably be the first time this jungle had heard opera!
...as if heaven had descended to earth. I just want to die already.
I hope they decide to enter through here, because I don't know if I have enough strength to crawl out there to them...
Hmm.. this would not be clever.
Coca leaves mixed with buckthorn
Filter
Knife
A chair and a rope
Tube
Raches' photo
Ruth. She's great, we all love her.
Yes honey?
I need to do the report on yesterday's... business...  and I just can't get it all down.
Poor James... What his wife and kids must be feeling...
Why did I agree to fetch the damn coffee?!
Don't blame yourself. Who could have known? Guessed? It's impossible.
I knew this kind of thing could happen when I joined up, don't get me wrong.
But having someone actually die in your arms.... It sounds like a clich? but...
Listen, I know it's not a great comfort, but we've all lost friends here. You're not on your own, honey. In fact, you know what?
Yes?
Now would be a good time...
A good time for what?
... to ask to be reassigned. Nobody'd blame you.
No. No way Ruthie. I have to get him.
You were saying something about a report. Don't keep the Chief waiting.
I don't know what's happened to Nick. He's like Houdini!
Nobody knows. He hasn't checked in for a week now.
What? He hasn't submitted any reports, discussed the investigation with the Chief?
James always did his reports for him. Nick hated paperwork.
Well, before James... died, he asked me to give Nick something. How am I going to do that now?
Do you have his number?
Yeah, from the list on the board.
Oh, that one's down in the Hudson somewhere. Wait, I'll email you his new one.
Thanks Ruth.
Do you have any printer paper handy?
Nuh-uh, check the supply closet.
You know there's never any in there.
Well, I usually manage to find it there.
Anyway, look around you, is anything in its proper place?
Ruth, I'm done here. Is the Chief in?
Go on through.
I want to catch that bastard so, so much...
I hope you do, honey, I hope you do.
Well it's doubtful now. Chief's taken me off it.
Ah, don't worry. Doesn't mean you won't catch him. The most important thing is we're all on it now. So what about Nick?
Nick and I are partners on this new thing. Listen, if he comes by looking for me...
Wow, congratulations.
...I'm at the Museum of Pre-Columbian Art.
You going about the porter?
Porter?
Yeah, the porter. The one Nick thought was peddling marching powder out the back door.
Huh, didn't know that. No, I'm going there to find me a nice juicy murder weapon.
Well good luck with that.
Thanks. See ya Ruth.
Hey Ruthie, Chaser home?
Sure is. Go on through.
Leon Chaser, my boss.
That's just how it is, Nicole.
One minute you're stretching your legs, the next you're stretched out on a slab.
I just don't understand why he had to die...
It could happen to you, me, anyone. It's an occupational hazard.
If it wasn't for the stupid coffee, he'd still be alive.
Maybe... To be honest, I'm not sure myself anymore. Anyway, I've gotta talk to Nick.
Ruth, is Nick in?
Not yet.
That's Nick for ya. Never around, always late, hard to get hold of...
Still, he has got a lot on his plate right now. Drugs, fraud, serial killers - all the good stuff.
Sure, he's a success, but he's a lousy time-keeper.
So, it's time he had someone new to do his paperwork for him. Bonnet?
Yes?
You're it.
Roger that!
Good. Before you start though, I need that report.
Sure thing. Should I save it on the server?
Just bring me a hardcopy.
You got five, then I want you back in here with it.
Alright Chief.
Here you go - one report, hot off the press.
Thank you. Now then, for your next assignment...
What? What next assignment? I can't just stop.
You can and you will! Now.
Chief, I'm going to clear this case! I'm going to bring the bastard in!
No, you're not. It's a little more complex than that.
But I've been on it from day one. I even had the prime suspect in a foot chase!
...and you failed to catch him.
Well I'm not gonna catch him from behind my desk!
Cool yer jets Bonnet. You'll be assisting Nick with a tough one.
Oh come on!
Shut up and listen. Now then. Henry Fairbanks, engineer. Mark Chestum, accountant. Andrew Haig, doctor.
All killed last month in or around New York.
All the vics are white males, age 40 to 45, all done with an unusual kinda blade.
Most likely some sorta knife with a curved edge, we're still looking into it.
All tortured before death, they all have blue stains and rope abrasions on their arms and legs.
And check this: the second and third vics had their hearts cut out.
The first guy was probably going the same way, but he had a coronary at some point.
Fingernail marks on their palms suggest they were all conscious throughout their ordeals.
On top of all that, minor injuries suggest they were probably beaten at some point too. Whoever did this is a real piece of work.
Did the perp leave us anything to work with?
No, none of the usual stuff. But in an unusual twist, 16th century Spanish coins were found on all the bodies.
Oh yeah? Whereabouts?
The first victim had one in his pocket. The second had it under his tongue. The third...
Well, you studied psychology. You want to take a guess where the third coin was found?
Let's see... The pockets and mouth are progressively more private areas of the body. The murderer's developing his ritual.
At the same time, he's removing the hearts... So coin number three's going in... the pericardium!
Bingo! You win tonight's star prize.
So he's replacing the hearts with gold coins. That's symbolic of a whole load of messed-up shit. Is there any connection between the victims?
Not much. Well off. Educated. Everything's on the server under SK2007-01.
The weird knife had Nick thinking along the lines of ritual sacrifices. Aztecs, Incas, stuff like that.
Could be the hearts were used as sacrifices to the gods or some other weird shit.
Maybe it's a cult thing? Are there any active cults or sects with a Discovery Channel flavor?
Maybe. That's a good point. Follow it up.
We could at least determine if the murder weapon was some kind of sacrificial type dagger.
Yeah, start with that. Check the file for what we know so far.
We've extrapolated some sketches, determined its probable shape and so on.
Ok. Maybe I'll find something interesting in the libraries and museums.
Yeah, right. Just don't make a Ph.D. thesis out of it, time is a factor here.
I know, serial killers usually speed up. Any idea when we might expect another 'present'?
Yeah, going by his schedule so far, later today or early tomorrow.
Christ. Ok, I'll hit the Museum of Pre-Columbian Art first. Anything else I should know?
That's it. Now get out there and do it.
Bonnet, I'm too busy right now. Unless you've got a breakthrough in the investigation?
Uhh, no... not really.
Alrighty then.
Chaser
Car
FBI Headquarters
File
Up
Evidence Deposit
Street
If I leave now without giving my report, I'll be waitressing by this time tomorrow.
Behind this door lies the whacky world of New York crime.
A magnetic key card lock. I should have a card for this, seeing as I work here.
Evidence Deposit.
Stairway to the Mezzanine.
Analyzer
Mezzanine
Storage
Front Office
Printer
Cork board
Desk
Printout
Morning boss. Boy, am I tired. Up all night working. This case has me hooked.
So, let me bring you up to speed on it.
You know, from this window, you can almost see the insides of people's wallets.
In Chicago I had an office so high up, all I could see was the horizon.
Still, horizon gives you perspective. Perspective allows you to see important things...
I think our man was known by all his victims. In Rudolph's case, I think he was invited up to his study, where they talked and had a whisky.
I like my desk. If I screw up, I'll have to say goodbye to it.
Perfectionist.
Branford... Acquaintances, suspects, victims, it's all the same right now. We need perspective, fast.
Four isn't too much to handle, yet.
His urge to kill doesn't seem to be slowing though.
He asked me to come. It wouldn't be polite to leave just like that.
It's not that I dislike the Chief, I just prefer to be on the other side of his door.
Joel Rifkin was killing for four years, Bobby Joe Long for ten. They only stopped when they were caught.
Well you're the expert, go do a psych profile on him, see what you think.
I'll try.
And get your ass in gear, no reason he won't kill again tomorrow.
Laboratory
Printout
Ruth
Lower Levels
Heya, Ruth. I can't get into Evidence Deposit.
Oh yeah. You'll need this - it's a magnetic key card.
Nick must be a real night owl, I never see him in the mornings.
Oh, he was here this morning.
Mezzanine
No, I didn't see him.
Maybe people'd think twice about breaking the law if they knew how many clues we can pick up with this thing.
Muddy footprints leading to his desk.
Dirty boots are his trade mark.
I reckon he had his breakfast here again.
Ruth, you're a regular Sherlock Holmes!
Ha ha, best in the business honey!
Ream of printer paper
Yeah, and if you help me real quick, I might actually get to bed tonight.
Sure. I'll even call your cat, tell him to run a nice hot bath for you!
Ha ha, no baths, just showers for me. Anyway, I wanted to take a look at James's mobile.
But I don't know the PIN to unlock it...
People often use easy to remember numbers. Perhaps he did too.
Thanks Ruthie, I'll go check it out now, see if it works.
Nope, it doesn't fit.
My God, to think that was the last time...
Sorry honey, I'm busy right now.
The printer usually works better with paper inside it.
Yes, this is a first-class idea.
Lower Paper Feeder, Cap. 500'
The paper's obstructing the container.
The feeder moves smoothly.
Paper feeder
Printed report
Phone
Keyboard
Report for the Chief - just needs printing.
Typical keyboard.
To finish my report, I'll have to consult Nick. He knew best what the scene was.
I hope Nick comes so I can finish the damn report. Maybe I'll just call him.
There was a list of numbers tacked on the wall somewhere. Maybe it'll have Nick's too.
I'm going to call Nick and finish this report finally.
I know, I'll ask Ruth. She seems to know Nick's habits better than I do.
I have the number on screen. Here we go....
Hmm, maybe Nick is right. I won't  write too much.
In that case, my report is good and done.
This is a new office, the 'phones haven't been connected  yet. Still, you can always call from your PDA.
Lower Levels
Agents' Offices
Laboratory
Printer paper
Standard letter-size paper. Perfect for printing.
Uff! This is heavy. A few more trips like this I'll have a six-pack!
Printer
Study
I only go through the 'Leon Chaser' door when I have to.
So, what've you got?
He may have a pre-determined list he's working through.
Yeah. Some kind of sick goal he's trying to reach. But will he stop then?
Excellent work, Agent Bonnet. But you went shooting off without any backup, damnit.
Just like Nick.
Was that a compliment?
Don't count on it.
I'll pretend it was. Anyway, I'm here now. Let's get on with this.
Okay. Huaquero's going to be tough to break. We need to be 100% where he's concerned.
Our chain of evidence has to be absolutely solid, as it may be the only thing we can tie him down with.
I'll run a comparison on the blood on the knife I found on him.
Hi defense team will no doubt question the legality of our entry.
And the beating too. Nick certainly didn't do us any favors there.
I didn't approve of it.
Well, what else could you've said? 'Thanks Nick, but he looks fine as he is?' Come on.
Huh. I think Nick's got Huaquero in mind for James's killing.
You think? Do we even still have an agent Nick Romsky in the Bureau?
Everything I know about his progress lately is second hand!
Too much 'I think', 'maybe', 'I heard'. Nothing concrete, not even a decent written report! Bonnet?
Yeah?
You're our best chance. Get out there and make it happen. Go!
Shall we? I've got a major update on the investigation.
I'm all ears.
I've established a few facts. All the victims were part of an academic expedition to the Amazon over 20 years ago.
Professor Dickinson, his daughter, and another student named Noel Raches all tragically died during the expedition.
Our friend Huaquero helped evacuate the survivors. He also helped them smuggle some minor artifacts out.
Of the entire expedition, the only currently living survivors are Warren, Branford and Alvarado, who is now an archeology Professor living in Cusco, Peru.
All are potential victims, and all are potential killers.
Why?
Well, I don't have any real strong evidence yet, but all my leads come back to the expedition.
So, something happened down there that, 20 years later, is causing our wannabe Quartermains to rip each other's guts out.
Looks that way. I just don't know what the 'something' is. So I'm going to fly down to Cusco and talk with this Alvarado character.
I can't authorize that. They won't let me. It's about four countries outside our jurisdiction.
Look, if he's not the murderer, he might open up to me. I've got a picture with a dedication he made for Branford.
Can I see it?
Well well.
So maybe I'll find out what their little 'rumble in the jungle' was. But, if Alvarado is the do-er...
...then he had to have been up here for the last few weeks.
And so he was.
Shit, this is getting more and more iffy. Hmm. We can ask the Peruvian police to do the interrogation.
Aah, I've got the feeling I'll have to go and do it in person...
Forget about feelings, we're dealing in facts. Did you do the psychological portrait?
Yeah, I'm working on it. Our killer has a thing for middle-aged, physically fit males.
He's of a similar class and income as his victims - expect for Tatum - not sure why he got hit.
So, let's say he isn't an acquaintance, then he's most likely in a position of public trust, something he can use to get close to his targets.
Policeman or priest, the usual candidates.
Even someone like yourself, Chief, or our pal Branford.
As for motivation, I reject the ritual aspect. It's a cool gag, but ultimately just handy window dressing.
However, the antique gold coins left with the bodies? That's a clear attempt at communication.
Or the whole thing could just be Warren stripping down to a loincloth and slaughtering his old buddies.
Warren in a loincloth? Nahh.
Errr, yeah. Anyway, speaking of Warren, I wasn't aware he'd asked you for help, Chief.
Well, Nick was dealing with this case. He should have told you.
Mm. Warren admitted to me they'd smuggled out minor artifacts. Did he say anything like that to you?
No... He was very careful with his words and anyway, it was only a brief chat on the 'phone.
Maybe the stuff they smuggled out wasn't so minor?
So they found some really big treasure down there, someone got stiffed at the share-out, and this is a twenty year-late reminder?
Twenty years is a good amount of time for a prison sentence.
So he did twenty because... he was framed. That's a revenge motive. But what was he framed for?
We won't know until I go down there.
You're not going anywhere yet Bonnet. Such a trip has to be well planned.
There's no time for that. We hang around with this, and who knows how bad this is going to get!
You won't save anyone like this.
Listen to me, listen - you can laugh, but I see a jungle city in my dreams, and at the top of these massive stone steps is a sacrificial altar...
...and the murderer's there, and he's going to turn around any second, and when he does - Pow!
Oh, for crying out loud, she's giving me dreams now. Go home, sleep. I'm giving you one day off, make the most of it!
Chief!
Don't 'Chief' me! Just get outta here. Jee-sus Christ!
Ruth?
Did you talk to him?
So how do you know he was here?
How do you know he left them this morning and not last night?
Pile of crumbs under his desk. And the empty milk carton.
Ruth?
What is it honey? You need a hand with something?
Well, you could give it to the tech boys. But maybe he just used his birthday or something stupid?
Yeah, good point. Can you pull his file for me?
Try his vehicle reg. There's a photo with it from the last departmental picnic, on the board. He sure loved his car.
Hail, the conquering hero returns!
Ruth, are you okay?
Come on! Nicole, honey, all of New York is talking about your success!
There was nothing about it in the papers...
There will soon. Even Chaser said you were the 'big cat' in the jungle now!
Ggrrrrr!
Ha. C'mere, let me inspect you before the Chief grabs you. They say those shitheads down there really worked you over.
Ruthie! ... Is it very obvious?
Ahh, it's not so bad. Young bodies heal quickly.
Well it hurt like hell. Those bums really knew how to show a lady a bad time.
Nicole, honey, I have an eye for people, and I can tell you're a great gal with all the right stuff.
So mind that cute little tuckas of yours and watch it doesn't get shot off.
It wouldn't look so good six feet under!
Amen to that!
Oh yeah, he got real mad.
No doubt.
Well let's just hope the Port Authority don't dredge up another one.
Yeah, I'm hoping for a penthouse suite overlooking the Park for the next one.
Now now. Let's just be happy that another thug is pushing up daises.
That's a happy ending?
Hey Ruth. Chief around?
Nope, and before you ask, I've no idea when he'll be back.
Okay, everything's arranged.
Thanks. Has Nick called in yet?
No.
Is the Chief back?
Yes, he's in.
So? You flying?
Uhh...
You know what, Nicole? Dollars to donuts, Nick will be late for his flight.
Can't we just medicate him and wake him when he's needed?
Send him the address of some dusky caf?in Cusco, maybe he'll drop by for a coffee.
Ha! Look, just make sure he gets everything he needs for the investigation.
Don't worry, I'll staple the notes to his head if I have to.
You working late again?
Yah. I think I'll end up mummified here and put on display for future generations of secretaries.
Well I promise I'll dust you. See you soon anyway.
Yeah. Hey! Don't forget the postcard!
I won't! See ya Ruthie.
Room
Warm, fresh, printed paper, with that nice ozoney smell!
You made contact? What's the deal?
Yes, Alvarado told me about the expedition.
And? Anything new?
Yeah. But we're still in the shit.
Meaning?
After I left, Alvarado was murdered...
Don't tell me that...
It gets worse. It was another one of our weird ritual killings.
Where's Nick? Was he with you?
What do you think? He missed his flight.
I had to go.
Talk. Fast.
As we thought, treasure was the basis of the argument between Warren and the Professor.
Ruth, could you do me a Short Request Form so I can borrow a piece from the Museum?
Sure sweetie. Go grab me the form with the departmental seal from the supply closet.
You just need the Chief to sign off on it.
Do you have that document for me Ruth?
Sure do. It's over there honey.
Origami
Hey, Nicole, where you going? The Chief's waiting for you.
My God, this floor is dirty. Shame Nick doesn't try to cover his tracks like the criminals do.
Yep, those tracks lead right to my desk. What was he doing here?
Forms
Well, it could have been Warren, or Branford. How are you and Nick working out?.
I think it was that form.
Deposit shelf
I can safely leave things here.
Origami
There's something written here. Maybe if I unfold the boat...
And what's this? Nick's making origami with his breakfast?
Blank Form
Magnetic key card
Chief, I only need two more days. I'm this close...
Ok, I'm going back to the museum.
I'll have to hit that library again to do that.
Hey! That was no vacation out there! I bled to move this investigation forward!
Save your energy, you'll need it later. IF you're lucky.
I want the suspension in writing.
Why of course.
Heya, Ruth.
Did you see Nick in Peru?
Was he even planning to go?
Hard to say. He read your note and vanished again, although he called for you earlier today.
Ok, I'll call him later.
He suspended me.
Ah, it's not so bad. He probably isn't serious.
Ha! That ain't everything either.
All of a sudden', I seem to have a desk full of outstanding work, and little point in going home.
Yeah, I've got to have the Peru report on his desk by this evening too.
I know. He asked me to stay with you, but no way I'm working late tonight. I'm going home, honey.
Ooh, he won't like you in the morning.
Look, if you're still writing reports, you're still an agent. Lock up before you go would you? The key's in my drawer.
Okay Ruthie, although I'll probably be done with it soon.
And don't get in any more trouble, or the Chief will string me up by the balls.
And when it comes to that, he's the best!
Phone numbers... Ah ha! There's Nick's!
Chief, this is a good idea. I'm betting the golden head belongs to the figurine from the museum.
That'd be good. What's next then?
We can work that out now.
Well can we make Warren a suspect and toss his place?
Not yet. His pal Branford gives good alibi. For now, we need a look at Warren's golden figurine.
Are you sure? It's a valuable historical object and all that jazz.
I know, I know. Warren asked for official Bureau approval before he'd let it go.
Ruth, get on the approval thing for Nicole.
Warren and the others abandoned the Prof, his daughter and her friend Raches. Seems the Indians got them after that.
But anyway, I went and checked-out Akakor for myself.
You did what?
Yeah, I found Raches' grave too, just as Alvarado described it.
So what are you thinking now?
Well, they could be the Professor's remains. Analysis of the jaw bone I retrieved will confirm or deny that.
Alvarado's dying the same night you visit doesn't look too good.
How do we explain that?
Pfft. Alvarado was barricaded in. I practically had to beg to be let in.
Which he did, only after scrutinizing my ID and that photo for a thousand years.
We haven't... err, started to cooperate, in full.
And that's it? Time's running out here, Agent. We need results, not dreams and holiday stories!
I do what I can.
And more! You broke nearly every rule in our Foreign Contact manual.
I felt it was time to get more hands-on.
The only hands out there were on Alvarado's throat, as they cut his beating heart out!
Come on! It was always likely he'd be hit.
A likelihood you may well have improved. I'm taking you off the case as of now.
I'm assuming full command from here on out. Plus, you're suspended from active duty.
It's not open to discussion. And I want your final report by tonight.
Fine. Vacation time's over Lara Croft, just get it done.
You're not going to lug it around in your purse are you? Put it in Evidence Deposit.
You're not going to lug it around in your purse are you? Put it in Evidence Deposit.
I should do one more thing...
Locked. Enter the Magnetic Key Card! Hey Presto!
Magnetic key card
Completed form
A wad of official forms.
Exactly. Here's a card for you.
The Gordian knot - after Alexander had had a look.
I could cut a small bunch from here.
This crazy woman, instead of making alterations to her customer's clothes, was making alterations to their bodies.
Yah. It was covered in prints. Your prints...
Ohh, sh... what the hell was I thinking?
They used to teach this stuff at Quantico, y'know.
Well shoot. I'm not moving without sterile gloves!
We should also check for drugs inside the figurines, and see about this picture of Huaquero.
Ah. Hey, you've known him longer than I have. You think he's happy with my work?
I'm sure he is, honey. Just don't count on him to actually say it.
Huh. So how long have you known him?
Oh, only a few months. He was in the Chicago office before.
You know his family or anything?
No. He lost his wife not long before I started here. He's only just gotten over it really.
Organizing this office helped him a lot. But from what I gather, he's not the same man.
I'm wondering what the link is between all the victims? Tatum's death doesn't follow the pattern.
They were all wealthy, respectable, educated men.
And Tatum?
He was a bum.
Well check the precinct's files on vagrancy busts and drifters, you never know.
Well I'll be... Tatum had a diploma from New York University.
Maybe it was fake? Like one of those online ones?
I don't think it was. He kept it rolled-up in an old champagne bottle.
Ah ha, so there's the connection then.
They were all alcoholics?
No, the education. Whatever happened to him, Tatum was at least a well educated man.
Right... And you know what else? All these guys were graduates of the same university!
Were they more or less the same age? Maybe they studied together?
Ruth! Genius! Maybe there's something to this. I'm going down to the NYU library on East 84th to check it out.
He lumped me with the guilt for Alvarado's death too.
Huh. Well he's been touchy with everyone lately. He wasn't even here for a few days.
When he came back in, he was acting like a bear with a splinter in its paw.
It wasn't in his paw, I'll tell you that.
Old garages adapted by the FBI for office use, a tradition going back to Eliot Ness's time.
I have to take the figurine back to Evidence Deposit.
I should have examined this sample from the Museum.
What the hell am I doing? Chief'll can me if I take off down there. Be the shortest career in FBI history...
Let it go! A man can only die once. Get packing anyway, your destination awaits!
Branch Office corridors, currently being renovated.
Blood tests results from Huaquero's knife
I made a real ass of myself!
Peace and quiet prevail around here. It's one place at least.
Every time I come here I get, like, stage fright.
Box of batteries
Luminol
Gloves
Lamp
Plastic bag
Frankly, I've no idea what to do with it.
Frankly, I've no idea what to do with it.
Frankly, I've no idea what to do with it.
Frankly, I've no idea what to do with it.
Frankly, I've no idea what to do with it.
Everything I need should be here.
Headless golden figurine
Box of tailor's supplies
Box of James's things
The head of a Pre-Columbian figurine
The golden head is missing. I'll have to look into that.
We'll see what Nick's on about with this mobile.
The head of a pre-Columbian figurine
Oh! And there's the golden head from the stockbroker's house.
I can deal with the figurines now.
Huaquero's knife, may carry biological evidence.
To the lab, Batman!
Huaquero's knife, may carry biological evidence.
We need to hang a picture or a mirror or something here.
The golden head is missing. I'll have to look into that.
Sample analyzer
Jar with swabs
Victim's blood test results.
I don't need it now.
Here's the blood group and DNA analysis of the other victims.
Blood group and DNA analysis of the other victims.
Test vials.
Sample testing equipment
Analyzer
Transfer switch.
This device is used for making other measurements.
Ok, the test results should've been sent to my computer.
DNA test vials.
Empty vials for substance testing
Test vials. Fill them with samples.
There're traces of blood here.
Pure, un-cut heroin
Sample of stuff
Analysis results
Sample area
Analyzer
Looks like the Museum was spreading more than just knowledge.
I want to search the entire Museum. The Chief could help with the search warrant.
What a surprise. There was a key to a drug stash at the Museum.
Does Warren have anything to do with it?
Hmm. Still not enough to detain Warren.
This device has other purposes.
Photo
Desk
Mobile
Photo of Huaquero
Photo of Huaquero with the first filter
Photo of Huaquero with the second filter
Blood tests results from Huaquero's knife
Keyboard
Keyboard
Photo of Huaquero
Try to get something more from this photo.
A few extra filters and... a dark room in the background, like a cellar or storage room.
There's a column supporting an arched vault, which means it's an old place. Fan on the ceiling, some other bits and pieces.
An old, faded poster, partially lit. Now where have I seen it? In the basement of the Museum I think.
I should go and check it out.
Oh yes. It'll just be a moment now.
Bingo! 80% compliance. Huaquero!
Suspected of armed robbery, but we couldn't make it stick. He got six months for petty theft and poof! Gone again.
Our local drug baron, also a suspect in a murder investigation. He's being surveilled by Agent Scott, James Scott...
So Branford was less concerned about the curse and the grave robber, than he was with this thug?
Branford thinks Huaquero's our serial killer. Why?
Think, Nikki, think. James receives this photo from an unknown source this morning.
He goes to surveil the situation and is shot dead. He must've been watching Huaquero's joint.
Huaquero's knife.
Henry Fairbanks' blood is all over this knife. Gotcha, Huaquero, gotcha.
What do we have here? The victim of a dark, gloomy photo.
We need to prepare it for inclusion in our database.
Maybe I abandoned my cozy desk job too soon.
Hanging wires
Ladder
Ladder
When all the alterations are done, it'll be great working here.
Blood test results on Huaquero's knife are in - they're from the first victim, the engineer.
He's done for now.
No we don't.
What??
Huaquero got blown away trying to escape custody. He's history now.
Well... At least there won't be anymore dead rich guys turning up.
Don't count on it.
James's ID
Key
I don't need it now.
I don't need it now.
Here's the badge and ID. Okay?
Cables
Scissors
I don't need it now.
Photos
Clear
Okay.
Doesn't fit.
Nothin' doing.
This is not the number
Still not there yet.
What other numbers would James know better than his PIN? Perhaps something that was always in view, so he didn't have to try hard to remember it...
The question then is, what do FBI agents always have about their person?
Heart in your mouth? Need some Dutch courage?
The answer, then, is his badge and his gun.
Let's have a look at his ID number.
At last!
It works alright, but we still need his PIN. Where do I get that from, I wonder?
I could call Nick, but really, how's he supposed to know?
Hmm. Nothing of interest here. There was a call from the Chief at one point.
Probably to tell him to wait 'till he got there. Ah! An MMS too, dated the day he died.
It's a photo, sent via an anonymizing site, won't be easy to trace then.
Quite a bad picture too. Men's faces... They look like Latinos.
If I can get it onto one of the desktop PCs, we could play with it a bit, maybe clean it up.
Anything physical? Hair, prints? What about those gold coins?
Nothing beyond whatever the lab boys picked up. Which I'm guessing is zilch
There was one thing. On the pool table at Rudolph's I found a small golden head - like a piece of a figurine. Looked kinda South American to me.
Most probably the victims were knocked out.
Isn't there anything leading to the Museum?
Maybe the head. But one of those crates had a knife matching the description of the murder weapon.
Warren let you check out the store rooms?
He, uhh, came by and let me in. Anyway, here's the big news:
There was a second knife listed in the paperwork for those crates, which wasn't in any of them.
You unpacked the crates with Warren's permission, right?
Relax Chief, I scanned them with the portable x-ray scanner.
Hmm. Ok, go back to the museum and find out about that second knife. Make noise if you have to. Also, check out Warren's alibi.
One more thing. I found the business card of one Allan Branford at Rudolph's place.
Well don't tell me, tell him!
Tell me one thing: Is Nick a suspect?
At this point, I can't exclude the possibility.
Chaser here. Where's the report? You got an hour.
I'm following Warren at the moment. I'm on 181st by the subway.
Repeat your location please?
181st Street subway. Warren's leaving his vehicle and entering a tenement.
You come back here right now, you hear me? You are no longer lead on this case. I'll deal with him.
What happened to the golden head from the broker's house? I had it in Evidence Deposit.
Oh, they took it away for a dactyloscopy. It'll be back tomorrow.
The results come back yet?
I've got it right here as it happens. Let's see... May 24th 1956, that was his birthday.
Ruth? Nicole.
Yes?
I need you to check South American flights out of the country in the last five days.
Looking for a Juan Alvarado, archaeology proffesor, flying to Cusco, Peru.
Okay, I'll get right on it.
Thanks Ruth.
Nicole?
Yeah, hi, Ruth?
Alvarado left the country already. Hopped a flight to Peru.
Aha, that's great, thanks. Listen, is the Chief there?
Not at the moment.
You know what? Book me 2 tickets on the next 'plane to Cusco, Peru. Visas for me and Nick, and a hotel.
Be cheaper if you share a room...
Leave me alone.
Dose Nick know about all this?
Not yet. I'll call him now.
Okay.
Thanks Ruth.
Nick, we're going to Peru with this serial killer thing.
Call me or Ruth back a.s.a.p. DON'T let me down on this.
The Chief's car
As discussed, examining Huaquero's knife would be a good idea right about now.
Something tells me this ain't the end of the story.
Starry flag
Backup batteries for our mobile 'phones.
I'm not sure if those broken cables on the Mezzanine have anything to do with it, but this telephone is a gonner.
From Chaser. He wants me to turn over all materials in the serial killer case to him.
This signature... There's similar handwriting on the photo from the stockbroker's house.
The letters 'e', 's' and 'n' are alike in both signatures... Well well.
Maybe if I twitch my nose all the ladders will disappear?
Screw the morality of it, human life is at stake.
FBI Agent Starts Career Tossing Her Boss's Office. Is Fired The Next Day'.
There's a newspaper collection here from 20 years ago.
This must be the page he tore out of the '86 yearbook at the library.
I think this is Alice Dickinson, the Professor's daughter.
Is that lanky guy from the previous photo also him?
A police photo of a car accident.
I'm acting in a high necessity state!
What's the password?
Airplane tickets to Cusco, Peru.
Oh shit. Everything's clear now. I lead him right to Alvarado!
I gotta tell Nick and then go grab Warren before he gets hit too!
Let's book it, there's no time to lose!
Nick! C'mon, pick up for once! Listen, Leon Chaser IS Noel Raches. Raches is our killer!
I'm going to the subway on 181st to intercept Warren!
If I die on duty, I hope someone'll come by and shed a tear for me.
Blood test results on Huaquero's knife are in - they're from the first vic, the engineer. We got him Chief!
No we don't.
What??
Huaquero got blown away trying to escape custody. He's history now.
Well... At least there won't be anymore dead rich guys turning up.
Don't count on it.
Of course.
Ruling
Back
Drawer
Cabinet
Lever
up
down
Close
Ticket
The museum porter, who according to Nick, is not so innocent.
Hey! What are ya doing! Put that extinguisher back right now!
Don't shoot! I have a wife and three children, you know?
What are you saying? Only one can fire me is my goddamn boss!
Thanks, but no thanks.
Yeah, it's similar to some of the others I've seen, but I don't know nothing more about it.
Look lady, I don't know what you heard, but I ain't got nothing to do with it.
Sorry m'am, we're closed today until the end of the week.
My name's Nicole Bonnet, I'm from the FBI.
What? Hey lady, I'm clean...
Actually, I wanted to talk with the director.
Director Warren?
Yeah. He in there? Where can I find him?
Straight ahead. He's messing around in the main hall, you know?
Hey, how'd it go? You talk to the boss?
Yeah, but I didn't really find anything....
Well, you know, we don't have everything on display. Sometimes we exchange items with other museums, you know?
Oh yeah? Like down the road? In other states?
Even other countries. We do a lot with South American museums and universities. In fact, I've just been packing a load of stuff for Bogota.
Any knives or other kinds of weapons?
Yeah, probably. It's part of the collection from upstairs in the main hall.
Can I see them?
Well now, I'm not sure I can...
Ohh, that's a shame. If I don't solve this knife case thing, I'll be doing regular duties again.
Probably chasing old drugs busts with Nick Romsky...
Uhh, well, you know, if you just wanna look around a bit....
You know, I'm sure that'd be, you know...
Oh really? Thank you sir, that'd be such a help. That's real sweet of you, I won't be long...
Uhh, yeah, okay. Through these doors here. Just, like, don't touch anything, okay?
What's wrong with the light down there?
I dunno. I'm a porter, not an electrician.
So how am I supposed to see anything?
Sometimes it works. You gotta jiggle it. One up, one down or something like that ...
Do you have an inventory for this stuff? Or do I need to call the customs agents?
Jeez, I knew it would come to this. Here ya go, this's the paperwork.
Ha! You see? Right there,'2 ritual knives'. Where's the second? I'll have to talk to Warren about this.
Sure, whatever ya like. I'll probably get fired from all this, anyway.
Call the director.
No answer.
Just as you left it. You can trust a Fed, right?
Fire extinguisher
Exhibition room.
Scary looking mummy. Hope I don't end up like that.
Gas extinguisher. Looks to be in good condition.
I'll walk around the museum with this pot, maybe put something out.
Dinghy
Flight case
Hall
Light switch casing
The furthest part of Storage
Switch
Switch
Switch
Switch
Switch
It's almost pitch-black down here. I'll ask the porter to turn on the lights.
It'd be good if I could take a look around, but I can't see in the dark.
I see... nothing.
This gloomy corner looks interesting.
This poster is very old. Could easily be 50, 60, even 70 years old.
Some kind of folded-up rubber, like an inner tube, or an airbed or something.
Some rubbery thing, curled up like a cat.
It might be useful, but damned if I can see for what.
Why am I carrying all this crap around? Do normal people do this?
Case? Looks tough, like it's for something expensive.
Wow, this is a heavy one! Can't be empty.
Exhibition room.
Bookcase
Exhibition room.
Hall
Car
Street in front of the museum.
Exhibition room.
Down to Storage.
Goodbye, stuffy old history. Helllooo, modern pollution!
Wait, wait, there's nothing to see in there!
Hall
Mummy
Display case
Archive
Orangery
Golden figurines
Porter
Nevertheless, I will have to see that crate.
Warren
Well, nothing I can see that would help the investigation.
Brrr, some of these exhibits sure are creepy!
You get used to it.
Poster
Storage
Gap between crates
Crate
Folded-up rubber dinghy
Crate
Crate
Crate
Crate
That folded-up dinghy looks very inconspicuous.
Oh sure, stuffing a dinghy into that gap would be a perfectly normal thing to do.
A heavy crate, full of booty.
Too heavy for me to lift!
A rubber dinghy wedged between two crates.
Inflammable, pressurized gas will inflate the dinghy.
A sealed crate, very heavy and very suspicious.
This crate is so heavy I'd need muscles on my muscles to shift it.
I don't want to cover the damn thing, I want to crack it open and take a peek!
Fortunately there's nothing on fire here. Yet...
I can see a narrow gap between the two crates.
The perfect place to shove a folded-up dinghy.
Back
I love these places!
Those Incans had such a great imagination...
But there are no knives with blades that looks like our drawing.
Off switch
No knives here.
No sign of a weapon or anything even vaguely weapon-like.
Well these are in pairs, and look here, an empty space!
Knife! Like in our sketch!
Switch
Switch
Switch
Switch
Switch
Switch
Switch
Switch
Switch
Switch
What a relic. It's older than the stuff on display.
Light switch
Even if I learn where these cables lead, I've no idea how to repair them.
No fire, no smoke, no deal.
There is a current, but it's not sitting in a muffin.
You leave everything in order down there?
The boss ain't here.
That's okay. I just wanted a quick look.
Impossible. Without a court order, no one gets in.
Look, can't we... work something out?
No way. I almost got fired 'cos of you, y'know?
Uhh, Nick Romsky was asking about you the other day...
Forget it lady, it ain't gonna work.
Mr. William Warren, Director of the Museum of Pre-Columbian Art.
Heh! Good morning to you...
Good morning sir. I'm Agent Bonnet from the FBI. You must be Director Warren?
The one and only! Might I say how glad I am the Bureau is finally paying attention and hiring more Jodie Foster-like agents!
Uhh, thank you. Now then, what do you have here in the way of sacrificial daggers and so on?
Can I ask why the FBI is interested in Pre-Columbian art?
Well, the type of knife I just described is possibly part of a murder investigation.
Ooh. Do you know anything about the murderer?
I'm not at liberty to comment on that. So could you show me some knives?
Certainly Ms. Bonnet. There's a display of obsidian Aztec knives in the main hall.
Very old, very beautiful. The priests used them when Cortez was at Tenochtitlan.
Fascinating. And they're in the main hall here?
Yes, it's a popular display. I think people like to imagine what they must have... felt like. Grim stuff!
Now, if you'll excuse me... old bones don't catalogue themselves, you know!
Welcome back!
Thank you for helping me reach Mr. Branford.
No problem. He's waiting in the next room for you.
That's wonderful. Before I see him though, I just need to ask you a few questions.
You have my full attention.
Well, we're investigating a series of murders committed with curved blades of a particular antiquity, similar to those in your collection.
Yes, I recall you said something like that last time.
Right. Well, I found some similar items here, but they're packed for shipping to Bogota.
Ah yes. The sacrificial knives.
Right. So, I'm hoping you'll let us unpack that crate to check them more closely.
Ahh, shame. Unfortunately that's not possible - they left for Bogota this morning.
Oh, well, I was down there in the storage rooms just yesterday, and I took a good look at those crates...
I'm sorry, I don't remember your asking permission to do that.
This is a private collection. I assume you had a court order or something?
No. Although I did try to call you, unsuccessfully.
My 'phone was off. What exactly were you doing down there, if I may ask?
The doors were open, so I took the liberty of investigating, in case of, you know, burglars and so on.
Perhaps you took too much liberty?
Well, and I checked a few crates with an X-ray scanner, just in case. Good job I did, too. There was a knife missing.
What do you mean, missing?
In the paperwork, two similar knives are listed. But only one knife's been packed.
Well, I'd have to go through the papers myself. Nobody's called from Bogota yet.
Thank you for your, err, vigilance, but I can't help feeling I should ask my lawyer if I should complain to your boss.
You know, that might not be such a bad idea.
What!?
Stands to reason that the only 'missing' ancient sacrificial dagger that I know of, may well be the same ancient sacrificial dagger used as a murder weapon - again - last night.
What? Again? I'm not sure I...
A Mr. John Rudolph was murdered in his home last night.
John Ru... This must be a nightmare...
Ah, so you knew Mr. Rudolph?
Tell me please, how did it happen?
I can't do that sir. Tell me, why weren't you answering your 'phone yesterday evening?
I was at the Philharmonic concert in the Lincoln Centre. That's why I switched it off.
They were performing Rachmaninov and Prokofiev, if you're interested.
Can anyone confirm all this?
Yeah. Mr. Branford can.
Okay. Well that's all for now, thank you Mr. Warren. I'm sure we'll talk again later.
Could I borrow this headless golden figurine, for my investigation?
What for?
It's part of the investigation sir.
Well I'm afraid I can't hand it over just like that. We have strict rules about this kind of thing.
I'll need to see some paperwork first.
Okay, no problem. I can arrange that. Will you still be here in a little while?
I'll be here for some time. Probably.
Ah, Agent Bonnet. Here about that knife business again?
It's getting a bit old now, don't you think?
Why didn't you say anything about the expedition?
They were... tragic events. Best forgotten.
Well start remembering, because my serial killer is tied into them somehow.
Really? What an idea.
Yes. I also think that you hindered the investigation by withholding important information.
Well now, I can see you're here on business.
I'm always here on business. Don't you know the victims are all on a list?
Well, it's possible I suppose.
It's possible?! But you and Branford could be on that list. Aren't you afraid?
What good would fear do?
Understand, I settled-up with my conscience long ago.
When? When Fairbanks was killed, or only after Tatum was?
You think it's so easy? And you, little girl, hiding behind an FBI badge?
Do you think about all the people slaughtered somewhere in the cold and dark, without your knowing?
Yes, and I hate it!
I wake up mornings thinking that today someone else will die, and I can't stop it.
Now, it's even worse - I know who's going to die.
Not all of them will.
Yeah?
Juan Alvarado, an archeologist living in Cusco. He didn't join us until Peru.
Juan Alvarado? You kept in touch with him?
Not really.
Were there other people involved in the expedition?
Yes. Huaquero.
Go on.
Huaquero was a local grave robber, an amateur.
He appeared when we were totally devastated and on the retreat, offering his help.
And then he demanded an outrageous payment, and we parted ways with great ill will.
Now if you'll excuse me, I have an important call to make.
Mr. Branford's waiting for you outside.
Thank you, I'll be leaving now. You're staying here?
This pavilion is such a magical place.
You sound just like Allan. But I'm glad, it's a good thing.
Creating something like that must require so much tallent...
... and twenty years of hard work.
And one day, Huaquero arrived and wanted to destroy all this...
This again eh? No, in the beginning he even seemed friendly.
And then? He wanted to destroy your reputation and you couldn't get rid of him. So he blackmailed you?
What makes you think that?
I found traces of a drugs stash down there.
Such a... dirtbag. He defiled everything with his dirty little hands.
So he came here to demand his blackmail money?
You know, during the expedition, we found a couple of shells of insignificant value, and some old Spanish coins.
Back then we were young and stupid. We invited tragedy.
When the rains started and we realized we wouldn't be able to find the Professor...
...we just wanted to get home as fast as we could.
And Huaquero said that because of the diggings, we would have to negotiate with corrupt pen-pushers for weeks.
He helped you smuggle items out?
Yes. Oh, they were objects of little significance, and I soon forgot about them.
Did he also smuggle drugs inside exhibition pieces?
No, never. He pushed me to, but I never allowed it.
Did he... pressure the others, too?
I thought... I thought that - that he murdered them to get at me!
Why didn't you inform the authorities?
What are you talking about? I spoke to your man Chaser about the whole thing.
Chaser?... Yes, of course. Did you find the... 'legendary city' in the end?
Akakor? Well we thought so, back then. But we couldn't go back again.
It... it all seems like a dream now.
Last thing. Are you sure you don't want protection?
Thank you, no. This place is swarming with police.
You leave everything in order down there?
Just as you left it. You can trust a Fed, right?
So why did I burn rubber getting here, when there was nothing to find?
Hey lady, maybe you should ask first?
Leave without examining these knives? Yeah, right.
I put in, I put out, it's very hard to find any kind of sense in it, isn't it?
Right. Have you been out of town recently?
Ah, good day to you Agent. No, I haven't. But I gather you were in Peru?
You're well informed. Alvarado told me all about the expedition, and your little revolution.
I don't think you know the whole truth.
I know enough about your part.
Do you indeed? If I've done some wrong, then arrest me.
Otherwise, I've no interest in baseless accusations.
I also know about the grave you thought was Raches'.
Who's is it then?
The Professor's.
Oh, well. That could explain a lot. I never liked the idea of the Proffesor and his daughter
whirling around exacting vengeance from the 'guilty'.
So you think Raches is alive and killing?
Do you have a better explanation?
Couldn't it be the case that someone wants your treasure?
Treasure? Even if this 'treasure' existed, I don't see how five dead bodies would lead to it.
Anyway, I must dash. Until the nex...
Six.
Yeah?
Alvarado was killed shortly after my visit.
God save us from the FBI!
You're out of order!
John Rudolph, stock broker, murdered on Staten Island earlier today. Looks like one of yours. Go check it out, I'll come by later.
Could you open the display case with the golden figurines, please.
Jeez, it's always something with you.
Director Warren has given his permission this time.
Okay, okay. It'll be open for you by the time you get there.
What the hell have you done? I can't arm the alarm!
Uhh.... I only took the figurine...
... and now the system knows there's nothing there.
I'm sure you'll work something out. I've really got to skate now.
Look lady, you can't leave me alone like this. I need to secure the entire exhibition manually!
Well did you call the alarm company?
Yeah, but they ain't coming 'till morning. We've gotta guard these exhibits all night!
And I promised the kids I'd take them to the movies tonight...
Director Warren, this is an official FBI request to borrow one of your display pieces.
Of course. Please, the figurine is all yours, Agent Bonnet.
Uhh, how do I remove it from the display case?
The porter will take care of that for you.
Uhh, how do I remove it from the display case?
The porter will take care of that for you.
It's late. I've gotta skate if I'm going to make my appointment with Nick.
I can't waste any more time here.
There's no time for this now.
I have an appointment with Branford, I'm not going yet.
First I've got to talk to Warren.
Vases
This is potting soil, for flowers and small plants.
Golden figurine
Cool. The head from the broker's place fits on the figurine perfectly.
I'd love to take it back to the office, but this time with Warren's permission.
The little guy lost his head. But I think I know how to help him.
This time I must ask Warren.
What are the lights blinking? Are we on? Off? Faulty?
The alarm's off. We can open the display case.
Vase
Vase
Vase
This vase is already full.
If you hurry over to the Orangery, you'll find Mr. Branford is waiting for you there.
Mr. Branford is waiting for you in the Orangery.
I ain't letting you do this to me. We need to secure the entire exhibition first.
Gotta hurry, no time for sightseeing.
Potting soil
My pockets are already full of dirt.
I may not be an expert florist, but I'd say this soil could be useful.
This'd be a good place to tip the soil out the vase.
The soil should just stay there.
A bit more of that and I'll have to call the cat about that bath.
Display case
I can't carry more than one vase.
These vases are heavier than I thought.
I can't carry more than one vase.
These vases are heavier than I thought.
I can't carry more than one vase.
These vases are heavier than I thought.
I'm afraid we're closing in a minute. If you have any questions, better ask them now.
Display case door
Terracotta
Lemme talk to your boss. Give me his number, I'll call him.
Uhh, yeah, Ok. His number is ....
Hey hey! You can't go in there without the OK from my boss!
You don't remember the number?
Huh, no reply.
Well, I'm afraid my hands are tied. Sorry lady.
And?
Nice Art Deco on the building there.
What about this case? Wasn't there before.
Oops! I'm sorry, I forgot all about it.
A little area for various cases
There used to be a metal case here with an X-ray scanner in it...
It's rather difficult to take something from nothing, isn't it?
Well waddaya know? The case fits here perfectly, as if it was always here...
Is Warren spreading word about the old maps and his talks of expeditions with old friends?
What now? For cryin' out loud...
Uuh, I was just looking at this beautiful... thing, when the alarm went off!
Alright, already. Don't leave until I've done a round of the entire floor.
Ok, I'll just... guard the entry then.
Woo! Ain't seen you around for a while. Investigation break down?
On the contrary.
Where are we going today? Storage? The Orangery? Gift Shop?
The Archives.
Archives? But of course. And will madam be setting-off any alarms today?
Not unless you'd like me to... ?
Alrighty then. Onward, Jeeves!
How the hell? Our knife man's dead. I'll have to look into this a.s.a.p.
Guess this is a packing table.
How am I going to find these documents?
A box full of Professor Dickinson's papers and journals.
Dental records
How do I read that? Which is left? Right?
From dental records, we can establish that this is from the remains of Proffesor Dickinson.
I can smell the jungle.
Down! Quick!
Condor
Colorful parrot
Shit, this is the poster! So Huaquero was coming here!
It looks like James was also interested in this cabinet.
There was white pollen on them.
If Huaquero used to come here, then drugs were here too.
They arrived here inside the exhibits, and were re-packed here too.
It doesn't seem likely Warren knew nothing about it.
And the porter? That's why Nick took an interest in him.
This is probably only one of the stops in the travels of Warren's historical treasures.
It must've been here that they did their scientific studies.
Bowl
Aluminium foil
Subway workers found next vic. Heart ripped out.
It's a message from Nick.
Temperature sensor
Bowl with aluminium foil
Statue
Temperature sensor
Scale
Entrance
Car
Policeman
Business card
Street
Pool
Annexe
Table
Oh! A business card.
There's a business card in here. I doubt It belonged to the murderer.
Yeah, this is the biz. Old Victorian houses. Always wanted to live in one.
There's a lot of knick-knacks in here.
Chair
Cabinet
Lounge
Pool table
Blood stain
Hmm... no footprints. He might have had some disposable plastic hospital slippers. But they'd still leave imprints.
So he lays him out like a patient on an operating table...
Chalk, cues, balls. As if it was just a friendly game of pool, not a stomach-churning murder.
Lounge
Hanger
Hanger
Umbrella
Umbrella
So many photos!
Pool ball
A figurine
Pocket
No. 2 pool ball
The smooth surface of the ball is cool and nice to touch.
I wonder if the CSI guys checked the pockets?
Yeah, there's something there all right.
Something... blocking... the ball.
Evening officer. I'm Agent Bonnet, FBI.
Jeff Macgregor, NYPD. Guess you got the short straw, huh?
Yeah. The investigators already been?
Yes m'am. Did their thing and took the body downtown.
And you're...?
I'm waiting 'till the guy with the keys comes and locks up the building.
How is it inside?
It's a rich man's place. Pretty tidy though, no sign of a struggle anywhere.
And the victim?
Killer gutted this guy like a fish, right there on the pool table. Put his heart in the corner pocket. I've seen a lot, but I almost blew chunks at that.
Vic musta been knocked out before the gory stuff happened, eh?
Guess so. CSI guys were talking about an injury at the base of the skull, but beyond that I've no idea.
Hmm. Well thanks Macgregor, guess I'll go take a look for myself.
Okay, thanks Officer, I'm outta here. You staying on?
Hey, I'd gladly go home and hit the sack right now. But oh well.
Ahh, someone'll be along soon. Take care of yourself.
Hi Jeff. What've we got here?
Same as last time. Am I Mr. Lucky or what?
Gutted?
Heh. Nice, real nice. So who found the body?
There were some guys in renovating the place. One of them.
He know the vic?
Don't think so.
Ok, let's take a look here...
Okay, that'll be fine.
It looks like the chair was moved. Did the guys miss something?
Maybe this pool table was the murderer's sacrificial altar.
How's it going Jeff?
No news is good news, Agent.
Well well, Officer Macgregor again. 'A good cop in a world gone bad'. Heh.
Maybe I'll find something else here.
Whisky
Newspaper
Glass
Glass
Possible the perp was socializing with the victim? One bottle and one glass knocked over, whiskey stains next to that.
This may be evidence. I can't just pick it up with my bare hands.
CSI took samples from the containers on the table. Photographer left an evidence number card behind.
The chair was too far from the table.
CSI took samples from the containers on the table. Photographer left an evidence number card behind.
Ok, it might have gone like this: Rudolph was sitting here, the murderer gets up to take a look at one of the paintings.
Maybe he asked for more whisky, then he comes whacks the guy 'round the back of the head.
That's why everything got knocked over and made a mess.
Yep. Wasn't such a surprise though.
First time I saw a mess like that, I lost my lunch. Now I see it and think 'What's for lunch'.
How's it going Jeff?
No news is good news, Agent.
Who'd think such an idyllic place could be a crime scene?
Where are the old skool guys? Time has buried them I guess.
Well we definitely got Raches' photo and signature.
Hmm, does this handwriting look familiar?
There's still a scent of blood here.
Just a bum. But a bum who might know something.
I'm sure Tatum hasn't told me everything yet.
Abandoned house
Entrance to abandoned building
Passage round the corner
Uff. Didn make it in time. Hope Nick his usual late self.
Crime scenes' favorite decoration - yellow police tape.
View of the back
Stairs
Apartment
Kitchen
Nick should be somewhere around here.
I still haven't checked the apartment at the other end of the corridor.
Exit to corridor
Room door
WC door
Exit to corridor
Room door
View of the back
Staircase view
Number 9
Fuse box
View to the right
Exit to street level
Upstairs
View to the left
What a dump!
Thank you for playing the demo. That's all folks!
I don't think I've searched completely everywhere...
I must find out what Nick's message is.
I've got to find James's mobile. I've a feeling it's somewhere in this building.
I'm not going to find anything in this darkness.
Whisky
Exit to corridor
Kitchen table
Kitchen sink
Pretty damn good whiskey for a bum.
Well, I don't drink on duty, but this might help with the information gathering.
Plug
Plug
The cable appears to be scorched.
Okay, I'll switch it on
No way I'm grabbing those wires with my bare hands!
The cable appears to be scorched.
I'll try to turn it off. I only hope my bacon doesn't get fried.
No way I'm grabbing those wires with my bare hands!
Exit
Burnt-out fuse
Empty bottle with a chipped neck
If the beat cops find you here Joel...
Yeah, yeah, sure... what was I... come and visit me sometime in the subway.
181 Street station. And take Nick with you.
Jesus, this guy stinks like a brewery!
What's your name?
Joel... Tatum.
Do you have any ID on you?
Naaah...
What are you doing here Joel?
Sitting. Down there, by the door there's this tape, says police and do not cross or something.
So I'm sitting and not crossing.
Okay. Were you here two days ago Joel?
Two days? Nah, don't think so. Half an hour ago, there was this guy with a badge and took me in.
He had a badge, must have been a friend of yours, no? Called... how... whatsisname... Nick.
Generally, my home is somewhere else.
Well, you gotta go back there now Joel. You're not allowed to be here right now, okay?
No, no, no. Nick told me I'm not supposed to cross that yellow tape.
This building is closed because a murder was committed here.
Murder?! Damn, Nick set me up!!
I have to sit here 'til his... tardy... partner arrives.
Well, you can go now Joel. I'm Nick's partner.
Yeah? Oh! By the way... what was I supposed to give you? Can't you remember by any chance?
I don't understand...
Sure you don't. For me it's a matter... of life and death...
and you can't even remember where I hid it.
Did Nick give you something for me, Joel? Do I need to search you?
Hang on, what was it?
Ain't gonna work...
... syna...pses, don't connect. Not enough... body fluids.
Alright Joel, I've got something for your memory.
What's that, not Jim Seam, I hope? I can't stand bourbon! Yuck...
Alright professor, just... do what you need to do.
Well, that's real Scotch!
Johnny Stalker ... Black Label.
How are the synapses now?
Connecting.
Oh right, here, in my pocket... I've got something for you.
It was in your pocket the whole time? What, was that a joke or something?
The fuse has blown. But I think it's repairable.
Rubber plug
Thinking about what happened here... ugh...
This is where James was... was shot.
Oh look. Some of his blood is still on the floor... and the wall.
Exit
Wire hairbrush
Look at all the cigarette butts. Nick must've been here a while.
One of them's still hot!
Exit downstairs
Look more closely
Exit upstairs
Fuse socket
Burnt-out fuse
Repaired fuse
Grandpa had these kinda fuses too. They were always blowing.
Hmm. Still, it would've taken quite a surge to blow it.
Kitchen sink
Whisky label
Old, dirty kitchen sink.
Old, dirty, plugged kitchen sink..
Old, dirty kitchen sink with a bottle in it.
Old, dirty, plugged kitchen sink, with a bottle in it.
Old, dirty kitchen sink, full of water.
Ha! The sink is clogged. The roaches are going to be pissed.
The bottle in the sink looks expensive.
Weird. The water hasn't been cut off.
Nice idea, but what's the point?
Mobile 'phone
Wire brush with missing bristles
The opening is too narrow, I can't reach it.
This must be James's mobile. Nick mentioned it.
I can see a mobile phone, but it's down between the gaps in the floorboards.
I think he's drunk enough as it is.
Back
Faucet
Car
Devastated furniture and empty bottles litter the place.
This is an ordinary rubber plug for a basin or bath.
In fact, I'll have this. The one in my basin at home disappeared.
I don't like to leave a mess...
A brush, holding a board up. This is a public safety hazard.
The work of a young and dynamic auteur...
Nice blue walls. Once upon a time it was probably real nice here.
I'm not done looking around yet.
Passage round the corner
Outside
To the next room
To the next room
To Storage
Air-conditioner
Hidden passage in the closet
Hidden passage in the closet
Chest of drawers
Trapdoor
Exit
Exit
Old, worn, creaky floor
Down the pit
Too far!
Crowbar
Alley
Wardrobe
Back
Up
Ladder
Down
To the next room
It's way too high. I'd have to be wearing my best heels to reach that!
Are you gonna shut up, or do I have to come in there!?
Now the wheel is not supported by anything.
A solid piece of iron.
Still needs looking at. But how can I get it without coming near?
There's someone inside. How about if I have a little listen?
Look boss, I can understand gold and jewelry. But like, why lug all this old trash around?
Ach, relax. You think I don't have a soul? My Indian spirit is over there, nestling in those shells.
You're not a gringo, don't you get it?
More keys! And not one Monkey Head key among them!
How to make them open the window?
Hmm...
And what if this isn't the murder weapon? I've got to be sure.
A crank for raising the roller-blind. Miss Marple that!
A lady's purse. Disgusting design.
Someone's there, next door. Quiet now Nikki, real quiet...
I don't want to be spotted.
I don't think that's such a great idea. There has to be another way.
Door
Gun
Right
Closed. I won't get there this way.
What do we have here? An illegal firearm. Better scoop it before the neighborhood kids find it.
Thanks for the gift, Mr. Thug.
Car
Car
Handbrake
Handbrake
Handbrake
Get off
Get off
Balcony
Window
Open window in a suspicious apartment.
Closed window to a suspicious apartment.
The window is open.
The window is closed.
Shut it you moron! You think killing you where you stand would be a moral dilemma for me?
Yes, boss. Sorry. I just thought we were... exposing ourselves, is all.
Enough. Pack this stuff up. And don't forget that old knife in the drawer.
When I return with the truck, I'll call you to come down and open the door.
Then you can load the stuff.
Small door
Key box
Key
Key
Key
Key
Key
Key
Key
Key
Doors usually open for me because I've kicked them down.
Of course, order is the most important thing.
Sometimes this job is just like a game. Only without high scores.
I better take them all. Maybe one of them'll fit.
More keys, closed and locked behind glass.
The small door seems to be unlocked, but there's no way to pull it open.
Just kidding. I know I need to pry it open.
I'm putting a coin in the slot.  It's what economists call 'the power of money'.
Air-conditioner fan blades
Ha! Now you'll stink instead of freezing!
I can't see how to fix this.
Those bastards are enjoying the cold, while I'm frying here.
'The Cold of Morning''
Hidden lever
Dollars to donuts this hidden lever opens something... hidden.
Cheap reproduction in a ruined frame.
Closed window. Permanently closed...
I don't see any way of opening it from the outside.
It won't open by itself.
I'm not Houdini, I can't move through glass or walls.
I've got to provoke them into opening the window.
Think, Nicole. There has to be some way.
If I can damage the air-conditioner, make it smoke or something.
The back of the closet
I can feel a breeze from that crack. The back panel looks movable.
'The Cold of Morning''
Carpet corner
This carpet corner looks more worn, like it's been handled alot.
Ok, lets look under the carpet. Guess I'm not the first to think this.
Well well, curiouser and curiouser, a trapdoor.
Wonder where it leads? Let's take a look...
Ah, a secret passage. Clich?upon clich?
The problem is, the trapdoor's jammed tight.
A lousy lock, but better than nothing.
I can't be surprised by anyone if I lock the door from the inside.
Drawer
Ritual dagger
It's better not to touch something that looks like a murder weapon with bare hands.
Without gloves I'll have to watch out for leaving fingerprints.
Without the bag, the blood stains could be rubbed away.
These are undoubtedly blood stains. I need to secure this evidence.
Space lft by a can
Can
Key box
This can looks more useful than the rest of this junk.
Hmm, I wonder what's inside?
Ok, let's grab that again, although God only knows why.
Can, can and more can. I think I need to visit my psychoanalyst.
There was a can here, once. I can see a dust-free circle where it sat.
Of course. Can't be stealthy carrying a tinkling can.
Lockable door handle
Roller-blind mechanism
Roller-blind mechanism crank
Damn! The roller-blind won't stay up, and I can't hold it all day.
Going good so far, but maybe it'd be better to open the door first.
The door's been locked with a key.
The door's locked.
It's going slowly. Tough...
Well it's moving, slowly. But hey! Least it works.
No, there no way to turn it. It just doesn't fit.
Broken ratchet
Mechanism cover
Screw
Screw
Screw
Screw
Old, rusty screw.
The screw is too rusty to undo by hand, I can't get a grip.
Yeah, it's going... Slow process though...
This key is too thick. It doesn't fit in the groove.
There was a ratchet here once, that prevented the mechanism from slipping back.
Cool, the key fits the ratchet pivot.
A building facade
Car
A lady's purse
The wheel's pressing on the crowbar too hard, I won't be able to get it.
The time when this place buzzed with life is long over.
A beat-up, mid-range, off-roader.
Such... 'small doors'.... can be closed without any sophisticated financial tools.
It can't be moved. Mechanism might've jammed-up from disuse.
It's a strange thing... Something cracked, but like, from the side.
Plus, I can't see any kind of mechanism to release the bolt.
That hidden room doesn't feel safe. God knows how they built it anyway.
Waste of expensive stuff. I'll save it for later.
The Luminol will make the traces of blood visible, even if wiped or smeared.
I don't see anything here that needs checking.
Ultraviolet won't do anything without the Luminol too.
Sit quietly and don't fidget or I shoot you, bitch!
Fun place - girls, booze, a big stick in the face at the end of the night...
I don't believe it. I'm in the belly of the beast!
So boss, we duping this key?
Idiot, we can't dupe it 'till we find it!
Well it ain't nowhere to be found.
That's no good. Look, I don't have time for this, the little one's arrived already.
So, shall I go look for it?
No, it may already be in the hands of the cops. Anyway, we need to get the hell outta here.
The single working air conditioner in the whole place.
Car
Tenement
Subway
Subway
End of tunnel
Square
First floor
Tenement first floor
Boiler room
Square
Platform
Downstairs
Box
First floor
Engine room
Tenement
Upstairs
Basement
Engine room
Platform
Scaffolding
Back
Boiler room
Passenger cabin
Abandoned platform
Basement
The 181st Street subway station. It was to here that that bum invited me.
Could he murder? Nah, he's more the victim type.
Corpse
Lighter
Hmm. This is Joel Tatum. A local drunkard, used to sleep around here.
The autopsy will confirm Tatum's time of death.
Unfortunately, Huaquero will probably dodge this one too.
Are the thugs recruiting now?
Subway
Wire
Gong
Tenement
Cola
Newspaper
Can
Someone used this newspaper to wipe the floor, maybe to obscure their footprints.
Grid
Butterfly' screw
Butterfly' screw
Butterfly' screw
Butterfly' screw
The screws are being blocked.
This looks like the proverbial message in a bottle.
Lighter's thirsty.
Ugh, bottle's crawling with beasties.
Ventilation duct nearby - I can feel air movement.
Low-rent neighborhood.
This building's glory days are long gone.
Is this the building which belonged to Warren's grandparents?
Old benches
This was once a  modern station.
Closed.
Can someone open up for me?
Sheet of paper
Uninsulated wire
Isolated pliers
I have a feeling they stopped before they could finish.
The tunnel's bricked-up here. What's on the other side I wonder?
An empty champagne bottle. 1986 vintage.
Switch Box WB12A
What a museum!
Here's the heart of the mechanism.
I can't fiddle about here with bare hands.
Who'd a thunk it.
Maybe there's another solution?
Humid in here.
Grandpa always wanted to be an engine driver. Must be genetic!
The last carriage on that line.
Caution! High voltage.
Is this antique elevator still operational?
Doors to the cellar are closed. Maybe it'll be easier by elevator?
There's a light on downstairs, maybe the elevator doors are open down there.
This is the elevator's engine-room.
Elevator motor casing
Workmen's tools left behind. How handy...
It's pretty unpleasant here!
I want to grab that small ladder.
Why'd anyone keep a load of water here?
Now it's much lighter.
Gas valve.
So, now I'm on the other side of the wall.
A small railway carriage from 1917.
They could only go through the tunnels in the carriages.
Are the brakes blocked?
A crank would be good right about now.
Driving that train, high on cocaine, Casey Jones is ready, doo-de-de-doo...'
Uninsulated wire
Electrician's notes
Elevator electrical schematics
Switch Box 42/3
Switch Box R11/50 R
Switch Box 8/00
Switch Box 20/07 WB
Switch Box III/1
The schematics seen to indicate that we need to bypass Switch Box 20/07WB.
Tunnel
Brake
Barrel
Microfilm room door
Exit to street level
To the back
Cabinet full of microfilm
Reading room
Exit
Microfilm reader
Okay, here we can look at the microfilm.
Reading room
Back
A box. Let's take a look here.
Reading room
Microfilm room
To the back
Microfilm reader
Microfilm spindle
Microfilm reader screen
NYU Students to Follow in the Footprints of Conquistadors! Amazon Expedition Underway!
NYU Professor of Archeology, Dr. Samuel Dickinson, is leading an expedition into the Amazon rainforest.
Their itinerary recreates the journeys of the Spanish explorers of the 16th and 17th centuries,
while the party's goal is the last of the great Incan treasures, the fabled hoard of Tupac Amaru.
Can the Professor achieve what the conquistadors did not?
Will he find the legendary city of Akakor, treasure vault of an entire empire,
the once-mighty Incas?
The team, who has already left for Peru, consists mostly of NYU students.
List of participants in Prof. Dickinson's expedition:
Samuel Dickinson - Professor of pre-Columbian Archeology at NYU. Expedition leader,
Alice Dickinson - the Professor's daughter. Student,
William Warren - Assistant to the Professor,
Andrew Haig - Student. Team doctor,
Henry Fairbanks - Student. Technician,
Mark Chestum - Student,
Joel Tatum - Student,
John Rudolph - Student,
Allan Branford - Student,
Noel Raches - Student.
So all the victims were part of the expedition! Fairbanks, Haig, Chestum, Rudolph and Tatum.
Finally, we got ourselves a fact.
The reel may yet come in handy
Okay, here we can look at the microfilm.
Drawer
Door
Counter
Switch
The shelves are loaded. Perhaps the librarian can help me.
Book-stand. For resting the big books on while you sit there squinting at them.
All the drawers are locked. Anyway, I'm here for books this time.
Cabinet full of microfilm
01-044-86? The numbers here are totally different. Where'd she get this from?
It's been hiding in this drawer for far too long. Let's see what secrets it holds.
I think it's this one.
I hope Jessica Fletcher there will help me.
Ah screw it. There's more celluloid here than in George Lucas's garage.
Microfilms
1986 NYU student yearbook
Car
Library shelves
Oh, you found the microfilm! I'm beginning to think you'll find the murderer in there too! The reader is in the reading-room.
You found them too! And I looked for so long... You're a regular Miss Marple!
Okay, but hurry along, it's getting late, you know.
Guess what! I found the microfilm!
Oh, you did! Wonderful!
You can pop it in the reader, over on the other side of the reading room.
You mean the focal lens from the microfilm reader?
I have no idea what it is. See if you can tell. Here you are.
Respectable walls in a respectable library.
Glasses
I should at least thank the librarian.
I haven't been to an ophthalmologist for a while.
Focal lens
So what's the librarian using if she doesn have her glasses?
The image is terrible... ah, no lens!
Finally! Now the text is clear.
There's something here about the aftermath too.
Tragedy in The Jungle.
Our university community has lost an outstanding colleague and teacher, Professor of Archeology Dr. Samuel Dickinson.
His scientific and social achievements are writ large across the history of our university.
He was last seen heading a scientific expedition to Peru to find the legendary Incan treasure vaults left behind after the Conquistadors' invasion.
In the course of the expedition the Professor, his daughter Alice and fellow student Noel Raches, all went missing.
Raches' body was found later in the jungle. He had been killed by native Indians.
Despite valiant attempts by the other members of the expedition, led by Prof. Dickinson's assistant William Warren, Dickinson and his daughter were never found.
In the face of the Indian threat and increasingly difficult weather conditions, the remaining party members chose to withdraw.
According to Mr. Warren, the chances of finding the Proffesor alive are virtually nil.
We believe though, that the professor and his students will live on in our university's history. Peace in their memory!
Warren! Warren! He's the linchpin of this whole story. It's just him and Branford now.
Now, are they both potential victims, or is one of them the murder? Maybe they're in it together?
Or maybe the murderer is someone not on the list. And where's the irrefutable proof that Huaquero killed Fairbanks?
Are there two murderers at work here?
Anyway, let's copy the list of participants. Maybe I can get out of here finally.
Let's see this list again... Must be a link between the expedition 20 years ago and the crimes now.
Only thing this list connects is the victims with each other. Can we really explain the murders as a result of the events of the past?
Why didn't Branford or Warren say anything about knowing the victims? That's fishy.
What's stopping them from revealing information that could save their lives?
Only if one or both of them were directly involved in the killings would it make sense to do so.
We'll have to check their alibis again. Anyway, all the clues lead to Warren at the moment.
Drugs, Huaquero, expeditions in the jungle... We must start from the expedition. That's where the fuse was lit...
The drugs thing is probably incidental, don't want to get too hung-up on that.
It wasn't a complete success, but I should still repay the librarian for her kindness.
The microfilm cabinet. All drawers are centrally locked.
Ok, the expedition's members have been checked out, but there's nothing solid on Raches. Check the stock broker's place, he had quite a photo collection there. I'll look elsewhere. What did you find out in Peru?
You don't know it, but you've been pulled off the case.
But if it's a trick to lure me there and add another body to the list?
Hell with it, I'll go anyway. It's not like I'm asking Chief's permission anyway.
In the courtyard
Cash machine
Exit to street level
San Martin Plaza
Car workshop
A strict guardian of the law. I'll leave him alone for now.
Thank God there's an ATM nearby, I'll need to hit it sooner or later.
Where are my manners? I should introduce myself to the hotel owner first.
Damn but it's good to get away from the city and the crime and all the every-day crap. It feels so... fresh down here
I'll take a camera and act like a tourist. Might even fool someone.
Nice place. Kinda antiquated and charming. Relaxed atmosphere, ideal.
Ruth has a great sixth sense, you can't deny it.
It's worth asking for directions to Alvarez's home. It's easy to get lost on these twisting roads.
Card slot
ATM keypad
The owner of the hotel, a big, jolly, middle-aged man.
Don't be afraid to try them.
Well, Maybe I will. Thank you.
For sure!
Well, I can always try and reach him myself.
Just come back in a while, we'll see what's what.
I don't need any more money at the moment.
I'll have to take the money anyway.
Camera
Table
Wouldn't it be great if Nick suddenly showed up too?
ATM keypad
Got the money, now back to the workshop.
The ATM accepted my card, let's hope it pays out too.
Closet
Buckthorn
Coca leaves
Old cupboard full of dishes.
It can stay here, I won't be taking any pictures at night anyway.
Old cupboard full of dishes.
Ah crap, why's my card being rejected?
They're still talking, I can't get any closer.
Mmm, a proper kitchen. I bet the food here tastes heavenly.
There's something brewing here, probably 'chicha'.
Is this an 'On' switch?
By entering here, I'm taking my first step towards jail time.
An old man who feels thirsty.
To kitchen
Table
Fire
Patio
Fire-place
Hotel
San Martin Plaza
This is not a workshop, it's a scrap yard.
Payment up-front.
Does it have fuel?
Wrecked cars
Bicycle
Tires
Wrecked car
Open garage
Garage doors
Garage doors
Space for a camera
Wooden bench
Camera on a tripod
Tripod
Camera with a tripod
I'll take the camera.
I'll take a photo first.
62 Chevy Impala. I remember grandma driving me to town in one of these.
Garage door.
Open Sesame!
I don't see Don Diego's Jeep anywhere.
I should take the camera with me.
I heard that tires are a high energy source for fires. Surly a tire fire would stink though?
If it wasn't for the missing saddle, who knows, I might like to borrow this bike.
Great spot for the camera.
Okay! Smile.... And.... 'Cheeese'!
This must be Jos?Santamaria, car-stealing neighbor of the Don.
I'd love to have gone for a ride in this car... 10 years ago.
What a crapmobile. You can hear it being eaten alive by the rust.
Tripod
Bearing
Bearing
Bearing
I don't need it now.
Here's the little beauty!
Camera tripod
I can take the photo now.
Jeep
Fuel tank
Here's the Jeep, let's blow this pop stand!
Fuel inlet
Corridor
Archeologist's home
Workshop
San Martin Plaza
Workshop
Juan Alvarado's house
To the entrance
Juan's room
Courtyard
Corridor
How is that possible? Alvarado locked himself up tighter than Guantanamo.
Nice. They want to kill me.
This isn't Counter-Strike, I can't use weapons against local police.
I can't leave even a trace of my presence. Especially my skinny dead ass.
Uh-oh, the doors are open. No prizes for guessing why.
That Incan's not on his bench. I wonder why?
Knock! Knock!
Nobody's opening anything.
I had a bad feeling. I closed the doors from the inside, just in case.
Board
Amphora
I can't! No... I 'm feel - feeling... faint. Get me outta heeeere!
Nikki! Pull yourself together! You can't help him anymore...
Wall
Exit
No Nikki. Run! Go!
I won't use 'em. After lugging those amphorae, I'm too tired to climb.
Those amphorae aren't like Russian dolls.
Those amphorae aren't like Russian dolls.
I can't fit them all, they're bound to fall.
Those amphorae aren't like Russian dolls.
I can't fit them all, they're bound to fall.
Those amphorae aren't like Russian dolls.
I can't fit them all, they're bound to fall.
Wall
I can only carry one amphora at a time on the board.
A true Incan.
It's double-locked.
Bolted doors.
Closed shutters.
I hope Don Diego doesn't leave me swinging in the wind.
Oh, here's a small window. If only I could get the ID up to the glass.
How do I deal with this guy? Can I bribe him?
Too high.
If he is your man, he might be preparing a trap.
I'm just not leaving until I'm fully prepared. No way.
Maybe those coca leaves made him feel better?
How's he supposed to see her, when everything is closed and boarded?
Good evening. Is Senor Alvarado at home?
This man's a paranoid nut. I'd better be careful.
And I can't give him my ID, I have to find another way.
Clearly, coca leaves aren't enough on their own.
Adding some spice'd be a good start.
Buenos tardes!
Knife
Fireplace
Window
Window
House
Gap
Small window
Senor Alvarado, you still there? I put my ID up to the window!
I've seen it. You can come in.
Space for an amphora
Close fireplace
Jeep
Entrance
Rope bridge
Rope bridge
Tunnel
Entrance
It's beautiful here. I'm so glad I came.
Passage
Chair with pulley
Cable
Old wreck
Lianas
This chair feels like it's going the way of that old bridge.
The knife is too flimsy to open the gates.
Even a crowbar's useless for the gate-opening job.
I won't do it that way. First, I have to do something with these ropes.
The lianas have overgrown everything. It's impossible to open.
Still impossible to open.
They opened just a bit. Come on, come on...
A crowbar. Must be 21 or over to drink here. Ha ha!
Crate
Chair
Jack
Pulley
Rocky ledge
This pulley could be useful.
This chair's going to kill my back.
The crate is locked. But not totally unopenable.
This bridge is predictably creaky...
It's swaying about like Joel Tatum after a whiff of beer...
Such precipices give vertigo a good name.
I'm going to need something to help opening the gates.
The rope is thick, but already slightly worn.
One step more and I'm in the Obituaries.
I think the road to the city passes through those gates. Not sure I'll be able to open them though.
Faith moves mountains, but it doesn't open stone gates. Car jacks do though.
Let's go!
This looks like a piece of Jeep frame.
Now that's what I call a drive in the country.
This Jeep has been here about 20 years now.
No coming back this way now.
Tunnel entrance
Main square
Tunnel entrance
Small pyramid
Sun pyramid
Entrance
And yet, here I am!
Main square
Pyramid interior
Main square
Back
Old passage
God knows why, but I feel disappointed. Was I expecting to find treasure here?
The guards are sleeping like logs.
Not a single sign of the camp from 20 years ago.
It's getting harder to breathe with each passing moment.
I'm sweating like a dog. Isn't there a shower here?
Symbols in the rock
Jar
Flies
Spider
Funnel
Hole in the wall
Frescos
I don't know if Don Diego would be happy that the flies are getting fatter.
A cloud of hungry Amazonian flies.
Look at this monster! I feel like he's going to stick me to his web. Yuk!
Crumbling paper covered in handwriting.
This funnel's been lying here for years. Time to see what's inside...
There're faded paintings on the walls. The dye's beaten the heat and humidity.
We must strive to create a scholarly atmosphere if we are to succeed, simple as that.
With the Indians on our backs, it's not easy to work in peace!
Exactly, so we will NOT be stripping the place of its 'treasures'. So forget that for a start.
Any finds we do make are the cultural heritage not only of those Indians, but of all Peru.
Peru? This isn't about Peru, Proffesor! It's about not having to worry about funding, for a very long time!
You're not suggesting smuggling, are you?
I'm suggesting decades of trouble-free research.
Oh, the money will come Bill, don't worry about that. The city itself is an extraordinary discovery!
Only for you, Professor. The names of our boys here don't mean anything now and probably won't in twenty years' time.
Bill, that's demagogy. You know that status in the scientific world is earned through years of hard work.
Maybe they don't want to wait that long? Shall we ask them?
Ridiculous! Besides, the Indians will never let us leave with the treasure. They've guarded this city for generations.
None of the conquistadors who reached this place returned, right? Otherwise we wouldn't even know it existed, eh 'Proffesor'?
As I remember, those gates guard the vaults.
If these symbols aren't some kind of clue, I'm in the wrong business.
The symbols are here too.
Step-pyramids...
Back
Signs on a small pyramid
Old signs
Figures
A blocked entrance
Panel
Water
Hole
Exit outside
Tomb
Road to town
Hood
Metal cover
Tomb interior
Smells like a mummy's underpants. Must be a tomb.
Right then, supposedly, this is Raches' grave.
Raches' 'distinctive watch'. Could be him then.
Poor bastard.
Hmm, the number of fillings suggest an older male though.
Unbelievable. An airplane in the heart of the jungle.
Another lost explorer, another pile of useful junk.
The whole thing needs a quick eyeballing, at least.
The battery should charge up in flight.
This is an air filter.
Ok, propeller needs to be hand-cranked.
Climates like this, water evaporates quickly.
I'll just have to take him myself. Be a million years before I get official permission anyway.
A well-fed spider is a happy spider.
Thanks to this arrangement, those leaves channel water.
This filter will suck clean air again now.
I don't know how to start this junk up.
Cap
Without some kind of lever, it ain't gonna happen.
Watch
Jaw
Propeller
Battery
Snake
Filter
FBI Office
Museum of Pre-Columbian Art
Stockbroker's villa
Thugs's hideout
Subway
Library
Thugs's hideout
Library
Exit
 

Sound
Use hardware acceleration
Display device:
Colors:
Run windowed
Multisampling type:
Use Hardware T&L
More...
Sound device:
Advanced settings
Note: These settings are provided for troubleshooting purposes only. If the game displays correctly on your computer, you should ignore these options.
Texture settings
Force 16 bit textures
Force texture subdivision
16 bit
32 bit
[no sound]
None
Samples
Antialiasing:
x
Don't show this window again
This game requires 3D acceleration which your video card doesn't seem to support. Please make sure you have a compatible video card and have installed the latest video drivers.
This game requires Microsoft DirectX 8.0 or later which is not installed on your computer. Please install DirectX 8.0 or later and try again. Do you want to display the DirectX download page now?
Loading...
Accessibility
These options are intended to enhance accessibility for vision-impaired players.
Send written text to text-to-speech output
Read item captions
Read spoken lines
Read typed characters
Use keyboard shortcuts to highlight active items
Move mouse pointer to the active item
(Use Ctrl+Tab and Ctrl+Shift+Tab to cycle through active items)
Allow pausing the game t anytime using Ctrl+Space
Game paused. Press Ctrl+Space to resume.
About
Powered by the Wintermute Engine
Okay
Cancel
Who are you? Why are you here?
I'd like to see Juan Alvarado please. I'm a friend of Allan Branford.
What about?
I'm with the FBI. We're conducting an investigation into the murder of some of your colleagues from New York.
Show me the photo.
This is FBI property and evidence in a major...
Farewell lady.
Hey, wait! Don't go!
I can see you all the time, but you won't be able to get in.
I beg you, please.
How do I know you are who you say?
How can I convince you?
Push the photo and your ID through the gap!
If you can see me, you can see them too.
No. Too far away. I must look closely.
Have you lost your mind?
You don't know?
I'm shocked.
Repeat please?
Excuse me.
I can't get my head around it.
Don't bother me now, please.
Could you go now?
Anything else? You finished yet?
What can I say?
I don't know what to do with it.
Thank you.
That's fine.
Once again, please.
I was expecting this.
zero
one
two
three
four
five
six
seven
eight
nine
The label fits perfectly.
There's something underneath that fold - some letters. I'll err, straighten out the page.
Yep, that's Nick's handwriting... ''James - MOBILE''
Does he mean James's mobile 'phone?
Piece of crap! The wires came out in handfuls.
Cool, I repaired the fuse.
I managed to wind the film onto the reel.
It appears to be a reel for winding microfilms.
A handful of bristles from the wire brush
Damaged mobile 'phone
Origami bird
Flattened origami paper
Boxed microfilm
Wire brush
Wire brush with missing bristles
Reel of microfilm
Empty bottle with a chipped neck
Whisky label
I have a wire.
I wonder what's inside that can?
I think I can borrow one coin.
Oh, money.
I don't want to take someone else's money.
Go back to your nest, birdie.
Nothing like order. At least nothing will get lost.
Banknotes, coins... Not enough to rouse my professional interest.
The rustle of money and tinkling of coins would be nicer if they were mine...
Portable X-ray scanner
Flight case type of thing, for carrying guns, optical instruments, electronic devices etc
It's not even closed. Let's take a look...
Looks kinda Star Trek-y. Like a little radar or something.
Ah, it's an X-ray scanner. Very useful. They showed us one in training.
'Allan Branford. Collector''. There's a 'phone number. Maybe I'll call him tomorrow.
Use
Fuse
Fuse
Plug
Reel
Whisky
Whisky
Crowbar
Allan
Ah, Miss Bonnet? Allan Branford. Bill told me...
Yes, thank you so much for meeting me, it's very helpful. So I hear you're a music lover?
Yes indeed. I'm a symphonic man, myself. Particularly live, you can't beat live music!
I was supposed to go to a concert with a friend, but I had to work late.
Apparently it was great. The Rimsky-Korsakov performed by the philharmonic at the Lincoln Centre...
Oh yes? Pardon me for asking, but you're not married by any chance, are you?
No, I...
Well I don't know where your 'friend' was last night, but he certainly wasn't at the Lincoln.
Maybe you should investigate what he was doing at the time!
I assure you, there wasn't even a note of Rimsky-Korsakov. But the Prokofiev... Aahhhh...!
Ask Bill. He was there with me.
Hmm. Is it possible my 'acquaintance' was at a different concert?
So you wanted to see me, to talk about music?
Well, would you like to go and hear some Dvorak, next Saturday?
Thank you sir, but I'm rather busy at the moment. But I do have your number.
From Bill? I can't believe he'd selflessly give me such a chance!
No, no, -aha- not from Mr. Warren.
One last thing sir. Did you know John Rudolph too?
Why yes. Did he do something?
Uhh, I'm afraid to say he died - murdered - yesterday evening.
No!? You must be mistaken. There must be some kind of- some kind-
I'm very sorry.
God, will it ever end?
The horror, the horror...
Again, I'm very sorry. Could you tell me when you last saw him?
Oh... some kind of charity concert, about six months ago.
Uh-huh. And do the names Fairbanks, Chestum, Haig say anything to you?
Yes, they were all... they're all...  they're dead too. I knew all of them.
Mr. Branford? Sir? Do you have any idea why... why this might be the case?
...Huaquero...
I'm sorry?
I don't know. I don't know.
Are you afraid? Sir? Do you have reason to be afraid?
Yes, of course! People I know are being horribly... killed! Am I going to be next? I don't know!
Look, if anything suspicious happens, you call me straight away, okay? Please.
Oh, that word you said back there - ua... aqa... uaqauero... Is it a.. a curse?
Word?
Ah, you mean 'Huaquero'?
Yeah, exactly.
In a sense, yes Miss. Bonnet. It means 'grave robber'.
It's good we met. Are you waiting for Warren?
We're going out. Although I'd prefer to go with you to the concert.
Hmm, well, maybe when I finish this case.
I can hardly wait.
I found out a little more about the Peruvian expedition 20 years of ago.
Do you, uhh, keep in touch with Mr. Alvarado?
No, not for a very long time, but we used to be friends. Why is he of interest to you?
The murders are all occurring within a specific group of people, and Alvarado's part of it.
Yes, yes he is. Do you think he could be the murderer?
Well, I don't have any proof to that end.
Do you think then, that it's a Kogapachiros Indian curse?
No.
Neither do I. But if our murderer was on this expedition, and if it's neither Warren nor myself...
Then it must be Alvarado?
Why should I suspect a man who lives in Peru, of murdering people in New York?
Alvarado was in town at the same time, of course.
What?! In New York City? Are you sure?
He called me. I was frightened he was trying to track me down.
Do you know where he is now?
He left a message that he was returning home, back to Peru. I hope it's true.
We'll look into it. Do you have his address?
Well, he sent me a letter postmarked in Manhattan.
Had a photo of his house in Cusco in it, with the address and a note. I showed it to Warren this morning.
Could I see it please?
Well, here's the thing. There was a bit of a mess in the museum this morning.
They were cleaning the showpieces that hang from the ceiling, and I had to literally push my way through between them. It must have been squeezed out of my pocket then.
Right. I'll find it.
Librarian
The stereotypical absent-minded old librarian.
Good morning m'am.
Or rather, 'good evening'. Do you have a library card or university ID?
How's this?
Oh, I say. And what brings the FBI to us today?
Well, I'm trying to find out about some former students from, say, 1982 to 1986. I thought perhaps there'd be some papers or records?
And all that, today? I think you'll be here all week looking that lot up!
Okay, so let's start with something that would list students' names for that period.
Yearbooks then. Hmm. Do you know what?
Yeah?
I'll have to close the reading-room in a few minutes. I'm all alone here you know.
I understand that m'am, but I'm conducting an investigation here.
I was expecting a 'but', young lady! Don't worry, I'll stay and help you.
Yes?
Yes indeed. Now, what was I saying? Oh yes. I'm all by my lonesome here.
Uuh, yes, I noticed.
I've been working in this library for 30 years, you know. I retired 5 years ago.
Oh, so you came back, because you couldn't live without the books... right?
And do you know who my replacement is? My niece! She's at a librarians' conference in Europe.
You raised your own successor, well done! Anyway, to get back to the yearbooks...
Yes indeed. Now then, the university authorities are very fond of statistics, you know.
Ahh... Paperwork?
Right. Now then, if you bring me the books you want, I can catalogue them and make the necessary statistical records.
Uhh, maybe you could point me in the right direction...
Over there, on the shelves, left of the doors. They're the yearbooks
Do you have them?
Here they are.
What is it exactly you're hoping to find in them?
Anything I can about four or five of your old students.
I see. And what are their names?
Well, Joel Tatum, Andrew Haig, Henry Fairbanks, John Rudolph and Mark Chestum.
Oh! Hold your horses there sweetie. Hmm. Okay, let's start with Tatum. Here's the index...
And here he is. Page 226. Now then, where are these other boys? ... Hmm... Seems all their entries refer to page 226! Let's have a look there...
Thank you very much, m'am.
Oh, don't thank me too soon. This page has been torn out. Look, see?
Oh my God. Is this Scooby Doo or what?
Those meddling kids get worse with every generation. But I'll catch the little buggers, oh yes.
Uhh, are there any copies, microfilms and so on?
Microfilms? Why yes. Although the newer things are being scanned now, you know.
Ah ha. Do you think I could have a look at the microfilm for this page?
Not today sweetie, I'm too tired now. Come back tomorrow. My niece will be back then, she's much better with the technical things.
Listen, m'am? Someone else may die today, and it's possible that that microfilm contains something I can use to stop anyone else being hurt.
Yes... well, when you put it like that. Shocking, quite shocking. Well I should leave now if I'm going to catch my bus. But there's one later on too, I could always take that one instead. Alright then sweetie, I'll help you.
Okay FBI, you convinced me!
Terrific, thank you so much. Now, where are the microfilms? I'll try to find them the old fashioned way.
You'd be better off playing the lottery. Higher chances.
Needle in a haystack, huh?
Hee hee. The microfilm room is there on the right. Wait, from here, I can unlock all the drawers.
Sorry, there's a whole room full of microfilm?
Of course.
You're right, I won't find anything this way.
Never mind. In the meantime, I found the catalogue number. It's 01-044-86.
Go back to the microfilm room and you should find what you need quite easily.
I'm sorry, there seems to be a problem. The microfilms in there have a totally different format.
Well, I did tell you to come back tomorrow and talk to my niece.
May I call her?
She's probably half way over the Atlantic right now. I doubt she'd have her mobile switched on.
Well, do you know why the numbers are different?
Well it all changed in recent years, but it's hard to implement new systems like that, a few items always get left out. And I don't know how to convert the old catalogue numbers.
Okay. Perhaps we can work it out together. What did the numbers in the old system represent?
Well that's easy. The first two digits were the catalogue section. The next 3 were the number of a specific item, and the last two were the year.
I see.
Now, new catalogue numbers contain additional information, and the two digit year numbers are now the full four.
So the new catalogue number would be, like, 01 044 1986?
Well the item number is now a 4 digit code, so in our case it'd probably be 0044. And the 01 would be 001 for sure. Phew! Guess I knew more than I thought I did!
Guess so! Ok, let me look real quick for that microfilm now.
Is that the only machine?
At the moment, yes. The others are being repaired. Is there something wrong with that one?
The optics are broken. No focal lens.
Oh, well, I really don't know how to help you there.
Uhh, wait a moment, isn't that the lens from the microfilm reader?
I have no idea what it is, sweetie. But I find it useful sometimes. I found it on the floor, you know.
Well, this is the lens for the microfilm reader. If you don't mind, I can fix it...
Ooh, I don't know about that. How would I read the very small print?
Don't you have glasses?
Of course.
Well why don't you just use them? I'm sure the students need the microfilm reader too.
Hmm. But I don't know where my glasses are right now.
What, you lost them?
No, no. They're around here somewhere.
I only need them for reading, you know. Now where did I put them?
Oh, never mind. I was using a clever little piece of glass before. Where did I put that?
Uhh, yeah, let me take it over here where I can get a better look at it...
You know, FBI, if you found my glasses you'd be solving two problems in one go.
Here you go m'am, I found your glasses!
Oh, how wonderful! What a clever detective you are, thank you so much.
Look, I know you're in a hurry to get home, but could I ask you for just a moment longer...
Oh, no hurry dear. I feel safer here with you anyway!
Thank you. I'll be finished real soon now. Could I have another look at that lens?
Yes, of course, here it is.
Thank you very much m'am, I've got everything I need now.
May I go home then?
Certainly, but if you'll just bear with me a second...
Heh! Good morning to you...
Ah, it's you again, FBI. You're probably surprised to see me, eh?
I am, but I'm glad you're here.
The niece fell ill after the trip. Worn out I suppose. Can I help you?
I hope so. Today I'm looking for information on Professor Dickinson.
Ah, I remember him. You probably want to know about his tragic expedition I suppose?
That's right. I've been looking for stuff on that expedition.
You should have said so right away!
Oh, and I'm not sure, but I think our bookworm was someone from your side.
Bookworm? Oh, the page tearer?
Yes, that little vandal.
Can you get me a name? That would be very useful.
I'll try.
And, regarding Proffesor Dickinson?
Yes, well, I remember his widow gave all the Professor's notes and diaries to his assistant.
Hmm. It wasn't a man named 'Warren', was it?
Might have been.
Thank you.
Thank you, dearie. Stay healthy!
Carabinero
Diego
The hotel owner. A big, jolly, middle-aged man.
Good morning senor.
Buenos dias senorita! Don Diego welcomes you. How was your journey?
Fine, thank you. Although I've got this nagging headache.
It's the altitude. You'll soon get used to it.
That's good to hear. I was hoping you could call a taxi for me? I need to get downtown soon.
Great idea! But it's not good sight-seeing on an empty stomach, senorita.
I'd be glad to eat here this evening, but I still have the airline food in my stomach.
Oh, hamburgers! Down here miss, you will learn the joys of a full and rewarding appetite!
Sounds good, but I can't afford a whole new wardrobe right now.
Shame. Men like a... fuller figure, I assure you senorita.
Yeah, I noticed.
Ha ha! Eagle eye! So, about that headache. I have something for it here.
Tablets?
Oh no miss, Coca leaves! Chewing them brings great relief from all sorts of pains.
So, what are the sights around here?
Oh, senorita! All depends on time. How much have you got? A month, a year?
Oh no, a few days at most.
Then, you need a guide. I will arrange one for you, and in the meantime how about a snack, something to round out the figure?
Uhh, a friend who's been here before recommended I should try Juan Alvarado.
That's a picture of his house. The address is on the back.
Are you going for a longer trip, miss?
Something like that.
Hmm, well I know him, of course. Respectable man, well-educated, incredible knowledge.
Sounds great, could you tell me how to get there?
No, no, it's not great at all. Lately he's been acting very odd, doesn't want to see anybody.
And for sure not a white senorita. Not good, not good.
Well now you've worried me, Don Diego. I was really counting on him.
No, no, don't say that. I have to think about this, please, come back in a while.
So, will I be able to see Mr. Alvarado?
Uhh, yeah, I'll send a boy, or go myself, and make an appointment for you.
Great. I can pay up front. I'll just have to visit a cash machine.
Oh, no, no. For politeness you don't pay with money, senorita.
Money, from a beautiful woman - this would be humiliating.
I'm afraid I've nothing else to offer you.
Then you can do me a favor, miss.
Hmm. Okay, I'm listening.
Senorita is a beautiful woman, no man could resist her charms.
This is beginning to sound questionable.
Questionable? These words are sincere!
Sorry, I'm just not sure where you're going with this.
Please, senorita! This is a respectable place.
Ah, you gringos - you're so... constipated!
To get back to what you were saying earlier...
Ah yes. Let me explain, and please, you have my word, there's nothing shady.
I'm all ears.
Now then. There is a garage nearby. One of my previous guests rented a car there.
Unfortunately, he disappeared somewhere and did not return it.
Oh dear.
So you can imagine how Jos?Santamaria reacted...
Who?
The garage's owner. Pfft, I was running hotels before he could even walk!
And now he thinks he's the big... fish!
So what did Santamaria do?
Ha! He came and took a car belonging to me, and he did it like a criminal.
Instead of coming like a man, talking about it over a glass of wine, he just came and stole it!
Surely that's against the law?
I'll not be going to war with him. There's no magic involved in calling the carabineri.
No, this has to be handled more subtly.
... I have other ideas...
I warn you now sir, I won't be involved in illegal actions.
Don't worry, it's nothing like that. Now, senorita is going on another trip, correct?
Right.
So, you will rent my stolen Jeep from him.
Park it here at my hotel, and that's it!. The rest I take care of myself.
Surely I'll have to return it to him and pay at some point?
You'll pay for everything up front, that's how it is here.
And when you come back from your trip and park, just take a shower or keep busy for a while.
I'll take the car back to the garage myself. That's it!
Is this Santamaria some kind of nut?
No, he's actually quiet a nice boy.
When I go and see Alvarado about meeting you, you can look over at Santamaria's place.
Well, okay then.
Please remember, it's an old Jeep!
There're no Jeeps there.
Oh yes, but he hides it inside the garage, for sure.
Buenos tardes, senorita.
Good evening Don Diego.
And how was Santamaria? Did he bite?
Luckily not. I rented the Jeep from him.
Great news.
But I can't collect it 'till tomorrow. He has to make some repairs to it.
Still, that's quite quick considering his lack of talent. Don't go far in it though.
You never know when it could break down.
Thanks for the tip. Did you manage to see Mr. Alvarado?
Yes, I did. After all, I did promise you.
And?
Well, his house was barricaded and the doors double-locked. But I have my ways...
Will he see me?
Yes, I have arranged that for you, miss.
Thank you very much Don Diego. So how do I get in? Should I just knock?
Oh no, this won't do anything.
Oh?
Your photo will be the pass. Push it in the gap in the doors, seniorita.
I see.
Now then, won't you please take a meal here. You must be getting hungry, no?
Sure. Uhh, one more thing. What time is he expecting me?
Tonight, at eight. But there's no rush.
Eight? That's very soon. I'll have to go early as I don't know the town very well.
But what about dinner?
I'll eat when I get back. So long, thanks again Don!
Hey, one more thing! Don't take your camera.
It's getting dark, the local bad boys might like such a toy!
I think I'll manage, but thank you for the advice.
Seriously senorita, I always advise my guests like this.
You can put it in the closet and pick it up afterwards.
Well, okay then. No point inviting trouble I guess.
Have a nice evening, senorita. Good luck with the proffesor.
And? Did you manage to convince Don Alvarado to be the senorita's guide?
Yes, we're meeting today.
Heh, I wouldn't hesitate either. But at lease he's not gone bad, thank God.
Is the car deal still on?
On.
Good. And how are you feeling today? The leaves helped?
Oh yes, they were great, thanks.
Good, good to hear. So, have fun on your trip with the Proffesor!
Thank you Don, I'll see you later.
Oh, senorita!
Take some food with you too!
Thank you.
Incas
Jos?
This must be Jos?Santamaria, car-stealing neighbor of the Don.
Heh! Good morning to you...
Bienvenido.
I need a car. To rent?
Certainly. We have only best models here.
Well... a Jeep will be enough for me.
I am afraid, no Jeeps at the moment. Gone for guarantee service.
May I look around?
Okay, that'll be fine.
May I look in the garage?
What for?
I heard you've got a 4x4 in there?
No. I do not know. I let my sister keep her photo things in there. Tripods, lights, that stuff.
You know... I'd love to have a picture with you.
Senorita, please. You can not get any better than me. I am very... uhh... photogenic!
Can we do it in front of that Chevy?
Great news.
A tripod would be good. Could you get one from the garage?
Is necessary?
Oh, don't move, that's the perfect pose.
I had no intention.
I'll go grab it then.
Guess what, there's a car in the garage.
Ah ha... I have not been in there for a while.
Looks like a Jeep.
Oh happy day.
Does it run?
Why of course.
Could I rent it for two days, please?
No problem. Only 100 dollars.
100? I could probably buy it for 50.
Not from me you couldn't.
But it does work okay?
As I said, it will start. But it needs... encouragement.
So, uhh, when?
If I fiddle with it. Which will be another 50 dollars. 100 all-in.
Ah, I understand now. Okay.
Please come back tomorrow morning. The car will be waiting out front.
Here you go... one hundred dollars.
Put it in my pocket, I have dirty hands.
No way, Jos?
No money, no car.
I'll leave it under this thing here.
Okay. If you prefer cold metal...
Heh! Good morning to you...
Buenos dias. Happy with the car?
There is no gas station here, but I have a few liters.
Great, thank you.
Here, 20 liters. Should be more than enough.
Thank you.
20 dollars, please.
Ah... right. Yes, but I don't have any cash on me.
I can wait...
The cash machine is out of order, I'm afraid I can't pay you right now.
Woo, this could be a little problem.
Ah! I forgot, what about the photo with me?
Let's do it later, Ok? Although, perhaps I could pay you with the camera?
Okay, yes. Camera is good. My sister will be happy.
Great, well, I'll be back!
Hello again! Here's the camera I promised you.
Take the gas can with you. Where are you heading?
How far can I go in this thing?
It will take you all through the Andes, now that I have looked at it.
I think I'm going in more of a lowland direction. Downhill is always easier.
When will you return the vehicle?
In about two days.
I hope so. Regular clients are very unreliable these days. Anyway, good luck!
Thank you.
Juan
The archaeologist, a good scientist, has completely broken down now.
Who are you afraid of?
The one who killed Haig, Rudolph and the others.
Do you know his name?
No. You?
Not yet.
If you did not come to warn me, then why?
I want to hear about  the expedition 20 years ago...
What happened out there? Help me understand.
It was a long time ago. We were young, eager for success.
Warren said the same thing.
After many troubles, harassment by Indians and so on, we reached Akakor, deep in the jungle.
Have you heard about it?
Yes?
At first, the Indians kept their distance, as though they were afraid to tread on the holy land.
We found a vault, deep in the city's center, full of treasure.
The 'minor relics' Warren was talking about?
No! More, much more! Incredible stuff, scholar's dreams, gold! We were euphoric...
And the Professor?
He was so worried about the return journey.
He told us we wouldn't be able to take the treasure with us.
That was a bucket of cold water on our hot heads.
Couldn't you see the logic?
Well, Warren had been winding us up. I don't know if it was just the treasure, but he wanted to take control of the party.
Humiliating the Professor was a side-effect.
Did he succeed?
Yes. He had been quietly taking control of everything. When he was confident of our support, he confronted the Professor.
He said we should leave the Professor in Akakor and return to the nearest settlement.
Then he took the weapons and most of the provisions, and gave us a choice-
Stay with the Professor, his daughter and Raches - and most likely die, or get out before it was too late.
Wow, that was harsh.
Yah. Raches was in love with the daughter. He wouldn't have left her for all the treasure in the world.
Nobody else?
There was one guy. A friend of Raches. But he broke down and ran after us five minutes later.
He was a bit... genteel. Always ready to please.
Who?
Allan. Allan Branford, of course. We all liked him, so Warren really talked him up.
Ah ha.
What?
Nothing, go on.
So led by Warren, most of you decided to leave the jungle.
How long were you gone?
Long time. About  two weeks. How we managed to return - I do not know.
When we came back, the Indians had disappeared, but the camp had been destroyed and all the stuff scattered about.
And no sign of the Professor anywhere.
Did you look for them?
Of course. At first, we were hoping they had left too, a different way. But then we found Raches' body.
It was half buried in foliage and... and his heart had been ripped out.
Were you sure it was him?
Yes. Raches had a distinctive watch. One of those bracelet type things.
So what happened then?
Warren then assured us that smuggling the treasure back to New York would be the best way to honor the Professor's memories.
We could believe anything back then. We wanted to believe.
Anyway, Warren is a genius. I'm only surprised he didn't go into politics. Although he's not the same man now as he was then.
I see. So then Huaquero helped smuggle the treasure back to the States?
Yes. And once everything was out, Warren told him to get lost.
And the treasure?
Warren funded life insurance from it, for all of us. Good policy too.
It annualized slowly, so we would never have to fear penury.
But where actually is the treasure?
I believe part of it forms the centerpiece of his collection at the Museum.
The rest he hid somewhere. I don't know where. I heard something about a tenement once, some dump owned by his grandparents.
I see. So did you try to return to Akakor?
Well... soon after we left for the last time, heavy rains washed-out the paths and re-shaped the jungle.
We gave up on the idea frankly. Until recently. Did you seen an Incan out front anywhere?
He might've gone by the time I arrived.
Strange. Anyway he bought some junk at the market from another Indian.
Some of it had once belonged to me, and I know I'd locked it in a safe many years ago.
It includes four precious stones, prized from the portals of Akakor.
These are particularly interesting, as they are used to open the vaults down there.
Could I see them?
Tomorrow. I hid them safely in a dry place within the house.
Anyway, the end of the story is that I used Google Earth to work out a route from here to Akakor, and made a map of it.
My intention was to return and try to determine the ultimate fate of the Proffesor, so I went to New York to convince the old gang to join me.
But after the murders... I gave up, again.
Senor Alvarado, since you claim to have a map to Akakor, and a desire to return, perhaps you'd consider taking me along?
On a trip to Akakor?
Woah... What you propose... it is very dangerous.
I've no doubt. But I'm here now, and I must finish this.
I'm sorry, I don't completely understand.
I have a duty to protect the innocent.
If I have to run through the jungle to carry out that duty, so be it.
Hell with it, let's go. I hid the map in a password-protected strong box.
Easy enough for you to open. We'll meet tomorrow morning.
Excellent. Thank you senor Alvarado. Until tomorrow then.
Uhm, Nicole? May I address you so?
Why of course.
Thank you, that you want to pull me out of this.
Tatum
Art of Murder FBI Confidential
Raven
Ok, if you go and see Alvarado about meeting me, I'll look over at Santamaria's place.
I don't understand, what's going on?
You don't know?
I'm shocked.
Repeat please?
Can I deal with my own business?
You're disturbing me.
I've got work coming out of my ears. You'll have to excuse me.
I'm very busy.
I can't get my head around it.
Anything else? You finished yet?
What can I say?
I don't know what to do with it.
Thank you.
I'm glad
Once again, please.
I was expecting this.
zero
one
two
three
four
five
six
seven
eight
nine
I'm shocked.
Repeat please?
I can't get my head around it.
Why're you getting angry?
What can I say?
I don't know what to do with it.
Thank you.
That's fine.
Once again, please.
I was expecting this.
You surprised me big time! Was that for real?
You're funny, you know that?
zero
one
two
three
four
five
six
seven
eight
nine
It wasn't funny.
I don't understand, what's going on?
I'm shocked.
Can I deal with my own business?
I'm very busy.
What can I say?
I don't know what to do with it.
Thank you.
That's fine.
I was expecting this.
zero
one
two
three
four
five
six
seven
eight
nine
DAY 1. FBI, New York branch. Downtown
DAY 2. FBI, New York branch. Downtown
DAY 3. FBI, New York branch. Downtown
DAY 4. FBI, New York branch. Downtown
DAY 5. CUSCO, PERU
DAY 6. CUSCO, PERU
DAY 8. Somewhere in the Andes
DAY 10. FBI, New York branch. Downtown
Art of Murder FBI Confidential DEMO
zero
one
two
three
four
five
six
seven
eight
nine
What, was that supposed to be funny?
Easy now.
Have you lost your mind?
You being smart?
I don't understand, what's going on?
You don't know?
Repeat please?
Can I deal with my own business?
I've got work coming out of my ears. You'll have to excuse me.
I can't get my head around it.
Why're you getting angry?
What can I say?
I don't know what to do with it.
Thank you.
That's fine.
Once again, please.
I was expecting this.
You surprised me big time! Was that for real?
You're funny, you know that?
zero
one
two
three
four
five
six
seven
eight
nine
13
Forget about it!
What shall I do with it?
They don't fit together.
This isn't a good idea.
This is a lousy idea.
Well that was stupid.
How many times can I try the same thing? Eh?
Only without the stupid jokes this time.
What would Nick do in my shoes?
Otherwise...
How about I try one more time, but do it just a little differently?
It's not this combination.
Why isn't this working?
Which procedure applies here? Hmm...
I'm a detective not a weightlifter!
If hitting it with a stick doesn't work, try a bigger stick.
What would the cat say?
Are they all laughing at me?
Why is it, whenever there's a problem, my partner's never around?
This is not a task for a woman.
Hopeless.
What did they used to teach us in Quantico?
Maybe we should try from the other end.
Ah, I've screwed up again.
Good job Chief can't see me now.
3
Irreplaceable equipment.
I'll take it just in case.
A Very Useful Thing
This is not the number
What else can you damage here?
That old stuff can be so fragile.
Switch
Fan
Jug
Metal sheet
Stove
No. I don't believe she could do something like that!
Everything's clear now, Don.
I hope so. I know what he's like.
You'll see. He stays at the police station, he'll confess soon enough.
Strawberries
Honey
Key
Headless figurine
A figurine
The head of a figurine
The head of a figurine
Bag
Fire extinguisher
Gun
Drawing of a knife
Pool ball
Lamp
Consignment note
Luminol
Microfilm
Coin
Umbrella
Dinghy
Cover
Can
Open can
Report
Gloves
1986 NYU student yearbook
Ream of printer paper
Portable X-ray scanner
Spoke from an umbrella
Flight case
Open case
Empty case
Business card
Plastic bag
Knife in a plastic bag
What, was that supposed to be funny?
Easy now.
You being smart?
I don't understand, what's going on?
Repeat please?
You're disturbing me.
I've got work coming out of my ears. You'll have to excuse me.
I'm very busy.
Don't bother me now, please.
Why're you getting angry?
I don't know what to do with it.
Beat it, sugar.
Thank you.
That's fine.
Once again, please.
I was expecting this.
You surprised me big time! Was that for real?
zero
one
two
three
four
five
six
seven
eight
nine
zero
one
two
three
four
five
six
seven
eight
nine
2
I don't need it now.
Frankly, I've no idea what to do with it.
It wasn't funny.
I don't understand, what's going on?
You don't know?
I'm shocked.
Repeat please?
I'll complain to your chief.
Can I deal with my own business?
I can't get my head around it.
Why're you getting angry?
What can I say?
I don't know what to do with it.
Thank you.
That's fine.
I was expecting this.
You surprised me big time! Was that for real?
zero
one
two
three
four
five
six
seven
eight
nine
It wasn't funny.
Have you lost your mind?
Free jokes!
I don't understand, what's going on?
You don't know?
Repeat please?
Can I deal with my own business?
I'm very busy.
I can't get my head around it.
Could you go now?
Why're you getting angry?
What can I say?
I don't know what to do with it.
Thank you.
That's fine.
Once again, please.
I was expecting this.
You surprised me big time! Was that for real?
zero
one
two
three
four
five
six
seven
eight
nine
What, was that supposed to be funny?
Chill.
I don't understand, what's going on?
I'm shocked.
Can I deal with my own business?
I'm very busy.
I can't get my head around it.
What can I say?
I don't know what to do with it.
Great, thank you.
I'm glad
I expected this.
zero
one
two
three
four
five
six
seven
eight
nine
2
A Very Useful Thing
Irreplaceable equipment.
I'll explain to you later. Give me some time to pull myself back together.
17
Cool, that wasn't too bad.
Not so stupid after all.
Fits like a glove!
Here we go, it works.
I'd never have guessed that would'a worked.
Quite, quite.
Bravo Nikki!
Brave girl!
Great idea!
Not a bad result.
We used to do so much more...
Done!
Surprisingly effective.
Piece of cake.
I hit ten.
So then...
Successful
Ha! No one's immune to my feminine wiles!
Every fox must pay the furrier.
 ?
<Empty>
Do you want to overwrite this saved game?
Start demo


 


 


Saved game description
Enter a description for the saved game
OK
Producer
 
Art of Murder
FBI Confidential
Back
Music
Fx
Previous item
Next item
PDA
Hints
Menu
Power button
Dialogues
Master
DEMO
I can't get my head around it.
Could you go now?
Why're you getting angry?
I don't know what to do with it.
Thank you.
That's fine.
Once again, please.
I was expecting this.
You're funny, you know that?
zero
one
two
three
four
five
six
seven
eight
nine
DVD Verification
Please insert ''Art of Murder FBI Confidential'' DVD-ROM.
Have you lost your mind?
You being smart?
Free jokes!
I don't understand, what's going on?
I'm shocked.
Repeat please?
Excuse me!
I'll complain to your chief.
Can I deal with my own business?
I'm very busy.
I don't know what to do with it.
Thank you.
I'm glad.
I was expecting this.
zero
one
two
three
four
five
six
seven
eight
nine








I've had enough of this makeshift junk!
People are constantly updating their computer's protection.
This file was new when Hoover was swishing about in stockings.
Christ, I can't believe James won't be sitting at his desk anymore.
I wonder when I'll actually meet Nick at work?
Newbies'll show up once we've un-packed again.
A map of our beautiful country.
National Best Head of Branch Award - Chicago 2000'
Actually, we all know each other from our Quantico days.
My mom and dad with my dog, Bella.
I'm focusing mainly on those dark characters.
There's a crazy idea in this office about limiting one's caffeine intake...
I'm waiting for the next Bond film...
A never-ending river of crimes, meanness and people's stupidity.
The piles never get smaller...
Another 'untouchable' betrayed by his own men.
This one was a vegetarian. Murdered two hot-dog men in two states in two days.
If this guy'd had better luck, he might've been an artist, or a poet.
The charming smile on this serial rapist led more than one woman up the garden path.
Mr. Happy' here was quite capable of killing multiple people in one day.
This genial fat-ass was the brains behind more than one crooked financial operation.
Unfortunately, he did not save my older colleague's life.
They usually have some pretty interesting exhibitions here...
A horrifying guard from the Aztec world.
I've always wanted to check out the gift shop here.
This creature has a dent on its neck. Could've been caused by spears or school trips.
Extraordinary ceramics
I had no idea one vase could have so many, uhh, pieces.
If these statues could talk, what would they say about that Mel Gibson picture?
El Condor Pasa
Jeez, this poster's almost a museum piece itself.
Real or fake?
You'd have to be real high to admire those pictures...
Do clocks stop when their owners die? This one's survived a few already!
I wouldn't sit on this chair if you paid me.
Those are the windows James was using.
What's the local version of  'Julie'?
Peruvian kitchen spices
Wheelbarrow or rickshaw?
Moron. Came all the way here on nothing but a hot head and fumes.
I'm not afraid to get behind the stick. It's just like dusting crops back home.